Does it seem at all plausible to me that
there could be something even in like
our nearly empirical reality that humans
are just like systematically missed
for entire [clears throat] history?
I am here with Dr. Jim Madden. You're a
professor of philosophy [music] who has
dared to reconcile some ancient
philosophy with UFOs. I think a lot of
people, you know, have heard of Plato's
Republic or the cave analogy or, you
know, the myth of, but they don't really
have a ton of context as to who Plato
was, why he did what he did. I think you
have to get away from thinking what
we're being proposed here [music] is
actually Plato's like political program,
and there's something else going on
here. you know, if there's a push and a
pull outside of the cave or whatever. Is
is the UFO [music] some sort of pulling
uh technology because you you talk about
this where
it's this thing that it busts all of
your priors.
Yeah. It would seem there has to be
somebody outside of the cave doing this.
Like there has somebody has to from the
perspective of enlightenment
be pulling us through. The light itself
also feels like this kind of um it's
like an inflection point. Yes. Where it
could uh either sort of eviscerate us or
it could kind of save us, you know. It's
like does something super unprecedented
happen when we discover um you know the
myth makers [music] when we when we have
when we develop the perceptive
apparatuses through high energy output
or through some sort of ascended
consciousness to like see who's like
messing with us and
[music and clears throat] does that just
unravel reality?
I am here with Dr. Jim Madden and it's
an absolute honor to have you. I've been
uh kind of mulling over the ideas in
your book for a while now. you're a
professor of philosophy who has dared to
reconcile some ancient uh philosophy uh
you know Plato Aristotle uh even up
until today you know more more modern uh
Nietz Haidiger uh with UFOs and uh I
think that is a very noble effort and
you've done it in a in a very brilliant
way in this great book unidentified
flying hyper object uh which I recommend
everybody go out and and read Um, and so
I want to start kind of at a super
baseline level, uh, because I think a
lot of people, you know, have heard of
Plato's Republic or the cave analogy or,
you know, the myth of, but they don't
really have a ton of context as to who
Plato was, why he did what he did. Um,
so why don't we just start at kind of
ground zero. Who is Plato, and why did
he write the Republic?
Sure. Well, first, thanks for having me.
It's a real honor to be here. Yeah,
I appreciate I think the only thing
that's really surprised me a I guess
should say what surprised me the most
about this whole process of getting the
UFO and bringing philosophy into it is
that no one had done it before in this
way. So, uh that that was surprising to
me but um okay so who was Plato? So
obviously you know probably most people
know Plato was the student of Socrates
and in most of Plato's dialogues um
which is most of what we have of his
writings Socrates is the main character
though not in all of them and it's
pretty clear that Socrates does not
always speak for Plato which I think is
important even in the republic. Um other
than that you know Plato was uh an
aristocratic you know member of of
Athenian society you know uh in the
period kind of coming out of the
pelpeneisian war um it's a time of like
great political strife you know so
Socrates himself was was uh a victim of
capital punishment that had a lot to do
with the politics going on in Athens at
the time okay um Plato is not probably
his given birth name Right. Uh it it's a
nickname like broad or big as in like
broad shouldered cuz he was the most
accomplished wrestler of his generation
apparently. Yeah. In Athens. Yeah.
And um Yeah. There's a
So you're maintaining that tradition
today. I'm doing my best. Yeah. Doing my
best.
Jiu-jitsu uh master.
Yeah. Yeah. So I think I think an
important thing um to note about the
republic is
you know it the setting of it is in uh
kind of a small this is anacronistic
like a suburb of Athens. It's not
actually in the city. So it's it's
outside the city. So it's a book about
cities not that's that's not in a city
which is interesting. And we know um
about when Plato is setting it cuz it
begins by referring to a certain
religious festival that classical
scholars can date when that festival
likely happened. So we know it's set at
a time when Plato would have been like a
little kid. Okay? So he obviously was
not there, right? So probably these
conversations didn't happen, right? But
the characters are obviously Socrates
and uh two other characters are Glacon
and Adamantis who were Plato's half
brothers and there's another character
Thrmicus who's sort of a foil to those
three in the dialogue. And um I'm not
sure if I'm getting this exactly right,
but my understanding is none of those
people are alive by the time Plato
writes this and none of them died
natural deaths.
Okay. So it there's they're they're
actually on separate sides of this
struggle. Okay. So like Thrmicus, my
understanding, was on the other side of
this postpalonian war political struggle
from Plato's family. Okay. So it's
interesting what Plato's depicting for
us is this moment where everybody was
kind of together behaving civily for the
last time.
Okay. And then it's all going to fall
apart politically after that.
Okay. which I think is important for how
we understand this book and whether or
not it's like proposing to us an
optimistic or pessimistic view of
things, right? Okay. So, the dialogue
then begins with Socrates and the guys
are here for this religious festival and
they're they're invited to a party. Um,
and you know, there's going to be torch
races and it's going to be a big deal.
And there's an older guy there who uh,
you know, they're kidding about being
old and isn't it terrible getting old?
And he's like, "Well, no, cuz I don't
have to worry about all the pressures
for sex and all this stuff anymore." And
they're like, "Yeah, but you're going to
die soon." and he said, 'Well, I'm not
worried about death because I've lived a
just life and the just don't have to
fear their death. Okay. And when asked,
well, what do you mean by justice? He he
leaves the scene. Okay? So, it's
interesting. The authority figure, the
old man, is making claims, but he can't
cash it. Okay? And this is this goes on
in all the batonic dialogues is the
authority figures always fail to
actually deliver what they're claiming.
Okay? But I think it's interesting
[clears throat]
that Plato's uh republic the the actual
question that initiates the dialogue is
the question of death.
Okay. Uh which then occasions the
question of justice. Okay. So I think we
think of the dialogue um if we've read
it as being a question about what is
justice. But that's the secondary
question like that's something we're
answering to to address the question of
death. And do note that the the book
ends with a myth about death. Okay? So
it's a bookended as it were with life
and death. Okay? Or with two stories
about death.
So for my money, if you ask me what's
the republic about, it's really about
death.
Okay? And and the human condition in
facing death. All right? Okay. So at
that point then you know what is justice
you know gets raised and now philosophy
breaks out. Okay. And there's a there's
a really vehement debate between
Socrates and Thrmicus. Eventually,
Thrmicus has had enough and leaves and
then Adam Mantis and Glalcon take up his
position uh as like devil devil
advocates and um they debate with
Socrates what justice is. They decide
that deciding what justice is for we as
human individuals, right, is too
difficult. So they switch it to a
political story. Okay, so what would
justice be in the city? All right. But
always the idea that once again like
we're trying to find out what would it
be just as individuals so we can then
figure out whether or not we have
anything to fear in death. It's always
the background. So there's like three
layers going on in the book
and maybe the most important one is the
one that's mentioned the least.
Yeah. Interesting.
Yeah. Because it's it's I feel like it's
thought of as this what is the ideal
state especially visav maybe you know
Socrates's death where you know Athens
as a democracy sort of turns on him. he
ends up drinking the hemlock and then
it's like okay if that doesn't work you
know how can we uh in some sort of
parapotetic way figure out through
dialogue what the ideal state is but
you're saying that it actually maybe has
more to just do with death and like this
really important metaphysical question
of what happens when you die
it now once this this is probably
controversial of course everything in
academic philosophy is controversial
right so you could find bright people
brighter people than than I am who agree
with me and you could find brighter
people than I am who disagree with
That's always a problem. Yeah,
I I agree. I also think we are probably
overindexed on taking everything
allegorically and not literally. So, I'm
I'm more sympathetic to the Plato
literalists, but you know, that's that's
my own I'm allowed to do that cuz I'm a
I'm a dillant.
Yeah. No, [laughter] I'm
I envy you being dil.
Okay. So, so I there's very interesting
things that go on in the book. So
basically we're told uh the only just
state would be one that had a
philosopher as a ruler. Right? So
ultimately the famous philosopher king.
Okay.
But it also like Plato says early on
that any state that occurs naturally is
going to fall apart
uh due to greed and injustice and and
this. Okay. So so you think look at like
any natural city is not run by a
philosopher. Okay. Okay. And we get we
get a story of how you would cultivate
philosophers sufficient to run a city.
But no, you'd have to have a good city
first to have those to to to produce
those philosophers in the first place.
So there's this really difficult
circular problem of founding in the
republic. Like how could you ever get a
just city because it would have to be
built by a philosopher, right?
And but a philosopher would have to be
produced by a just city.
So end up in this sort of toddlogical
loop or something.
Yeah. you end up in a loop. Okay. So, so
I think I mentioned that cuz
I think you have to
get away from thinking what we're being
proposed here is actually Plato's like
political program and there's something
else going on here, right?
There's also an important moment where
um it's after the allegory of the cave
and the question comes up like do we
would the philosopher have to return to
the cave
after leaving? And of course in in the
allegory uh the philosopher does go back
uh and annoys people because he's you
know asking them to change their lives
and things like that and eventually it
ends very very badly for him. And it's
it's a not so thin reference to
Socrates. Okay.
And interesting what Plato has Socrates
say when when he's asked you know would
we have to make the philosopher go back?
He says, "Well, in our city, meaning the
ideal city that we're thinking of, the
philosopher would owe his education to
the city and thereby he should return."
Okay? But think of it, that's only the
ideal city. And Plato has said
throughout the book that the ideal city
is not going to happen here, right? So
it seemed like he's saying like in any
actual concrete like human political
situation
the philosopher
really should not return. It would be a
futile effort. Yeah.
Yeah.
Fascinating.
And so uh just what is the cave at a
baseline for the average person?
Sure.
Okay. So um at a certain point in the
dialogue uh the question of how we would
educate a philosopher comes up. Okay.
And basically the cave is Plato's way of
explaining what the education of the
philosopher would be like.
Okay. So I think that's that's important
to see like that's that's where it's
proposed. Okay.
And in in the analogy that he or
allegory that he uses to make the point
is he says, you know, so we have a bunch
of people. They're in a cave.
They're chained so they can only look
forward and all they see are images
dancing on the cave wall. Okay. And then
at some point someone and I think if
that were the case, no one could
possibly know the difference, right?
There's no ability to separate yourself.
Yes.
From this, right? So it would be what we
would call today a consensus reality.
Yeah. Right.
Yeah.
And now Plato never explains this, but
voila, somebody gets loose.
Okay. It's interesting. We never get an
explanation of how that initial
liberation would happen. Okay.
And uh that person is able to turn and
look away. It's a very important thing
that Plato emphasizes is that person
looks away from the wall
and can see back and see that what's
really going on is there's a there's a
wall behind them and there's people
behind it with puppets on sticks
uh and there's a fire casting light on
the onto the wall. Right? So
the what the people see on the wall is
not entirely wrong. Right? the shadows
are rightish, but they're not fully
right. Okay?
And so this this newly liberated person
sees that, right? And then goes through
a process of of maybe even literally
clawing his way out of the cave. It's a
difficult arduous process, right?
And and what he's moving towards is
towards a sort of light, right? Okay. So
the fire initially that he saw that was
part of the put on, that's a kind of
light. It's enlightenment. Uh it's the
it's it's a sign of of knowledge, right?
But it's not full knowledge. And think
of it for the Greeks. All well, I mean,
we would even say something like this.
All energy, all heat, all fire on the
earth is ultimately derived from the
sun, right? Okay. So, he's looking for
the source of that fire, right? And he
crawls his way out of the cave and
eventually, you know, can you get out
and it's very difficult. So, he has to
leave and come back a little bit. you
know, it's very difficult to get out of
the cave and see in the life of the
first time. And eventually he works his
way up to glimpsing the sun. Okay.
Glimpsing what Plato elsewhere calls the
good.
Right.
Um but he can only glimpse it. Right.
Right. And so then he returns to the
cave and of course in returning to the
cave the light has changed again and he
stumbles around as if he's blind. So he
looks like a fool, right? He presses
people that there's there's more to the
world. What you're seeing is an
illusion, etc., etc. And of course,
famously, it ends badly for him just as
it ended for Socrates very badly. Yeah.
And it's there seems to be sort of push
and pull like he's the this person is
ascending out of the cave on their own
sort of olition, but they're also being
sort of dragged. Is that is that right?
Or Yeah, because you think of it like
like throughout the book, it's clear for
Plato enlightenment doesn't just happen.
you have to be taught like it's it
really you could you could make a case
the book is a philosophy of education
right it's it's it's what what what
should our ruling elite be like how
should they be educated right
and and it's and he the one thing Plato
would say is you cannot just let nature
take its course this way right like
people are not disposed to to take
themselves out of illusion right they're
they're disposed to stay in illusion
right so someone has to be pulling right
so is
which is a problem I think for the book.
Yeah.
Is the is the implication that the
guardians or the puppeteers
Yeah.
are they outside of the cave or are they
in the cave or Yeah. Where do they sort
of exist spatially in this analogy? Hey,
American Alchemy fans. After years of
trying pretty much every shaving product
under the sun, I finally found something
that I love. It's called House of Atlas.
I use it every day. House of Atlas's
razor kit has raised my grooming game in
the biggest way. The razor leaves you
with the smoothest shave you'll ever
get. They have precision shave cream
calming after shave. Seriously, I don't
know what they're doing with this blade,
but it leaves my skin feeling silky
smooth. With its five US-made stainless
steel blades and that high performance
serum strip, it glides through my facial
hair for an incredibly close,
comfortable shave. They also have one of
the most luxurious feeling and precision
guiding shave creams and a very calming
aftershave. Their shave cream has a
thick, rich, special formula that gives
me a clear guide for an even shave. And
the after shave leaves my skin feeling
cool and refreshed without any of that
old school sting that you might get from
other products. Plus, and this might be
the coolest thing of all, the kit comes
with an epic magnetic storage hook. And
now for a limited time, they're offering
15% off your first order when you
purchase any razor kit in the before and
after set. This includes the precision
shave cream and calming aftershave. Use
code jesse js
at houseofatlas.com.
That's h o u s e o f a t l a s.com with
promo code jesse j sse for 15% off your
new razor kit and before and after set.
So stop wasting money and time on
shaving products that don't look good,
aren't effective, and cost way too much.
Visit houseofatlas.com
today. Trust me, you'll love it as much
as I do.
Let me give you a spooky answer to that.
Yeah.
All right. So,
at a certain point in the Republic, uh
Plato has Socrates and the fellows
arrive at this conclusion that the
guardians will have to be told in some
translations good lies
about the afterlife.
Okay.
uh meaning like they have to be told
stories that will will like let them see
that there's going to be a reward for a
certain type of behavior that's like the
best for the state, right? Okay.
And the book ends with a myth about the
afterlife.
Okay.
So, what do we get? We get a good lie
about the afterlife. Okay. Now, my read
on that is what Plato's doing is he's
saying, "Look, I just dragged you
through the same educative process that
I was outlined in the book,
right?
Do you see what I mean? So, like it's
like it would seem there has to be
somebody outside of the cave
doing this. Like there has somebody has
to from the perspective of enlightenment
be pulling us through. Do you see that?
The
whole book I think tricks you
into following that very process. And
the guardians, so the guardians
themselves are told a lie and then they
sort of purvey the lie as well. They
transmit the lie.
That's fascinating.
In their training, he says they would
have to be told. Some some translations
call it a good myth.
Some transl I like this cuz I'm I'm a
contrarian. Call it a good lie.
Yeah.
Right.
Uh but yeah, everyone has to be lied to
in in this process. Yeah.
And the guardians uh the implication
there is they're guardians of this ideal
uh city state. Is that is that correct?
Okay.
And then do we have any understanding of
who is telling them this sort of noble
mythology?
Yeah. And and keep in mind like like
this is a a problem because Plato
earlier said any natural city is going
to fall apart
because of natural human greed and and
and you know selfishness and and such,
right? So how you could ever get this
off the ground
doesn't seem to be within like a
legitimate human possibility for Plato.
So there are all these ways you could
take this. You could take this as a yeah
total like myth or whatever and I think
the festival right that this was sort of
told at was a you know a festival of
myth is that right
well it was it was certainly a Greek you
know religious festival right so yeah
exactly
and then and then there's a you know the
the the so that's like on the one hand
and then on the other hand it's like
this is all true this is like a
descriptor of ontological truth and
reality and um I guess where do you fall
on that on that spectrum Yeah. I I don't
So the way I like to put it is I don't
think Plato was a platonist.
Okay. What I mean is
the kind of philosophy 101 that we all
teach our students because you have to
just you have [snorts] to tell some good
myths to get things going. Be careful
there. But okay. Um
is is very much a caricature of Plato.
Do you see what I mean? Okay.
And so um but I also think there's
something so I I do think there's a lot
of put on going on in the book. I think
we're we're we're being toyed with in
certain ways. Yeah.
I think a lot of it's a kind of a test
like do you get it?
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
Okay. But I also think he's perfectly
serious about some of the things in that
book. Right. Right. Okay. So, for
instance,
at the end the the the concluding myth,
the myth of
I don't take that as a serious
speculation on his part of what the
afterlife is like or something like
that. Okay.
Um and it's interesting because at the
end of the myth, uh this is getting in
the weeds, but people can go read the
book.
Um, at the end of the myth
goes back to temporal life,
but unlike everyone else, he's granted
memory of where he's been. Okay?
And um, Plato throughout his writings
has Socrates
defend the notion that all knowledge is
actually recollection of something that
we already had.
Okay? And so I think what what you're
getting here then is this suggestion
that like our relationship to the
ultimate truth is going to be more like
memory than it is something like a
direct discovery.
Yeah.
Well, he says kind of distrust your like
five senses, right? And it's almost like
this primordial knowledge is more true
in a sense. And so he totally cuz he I
mean you could say that you know it's
all mythology or whatever when it comes
to him even saying that but then in the
in the book of Mino uh you know they
literally have this slave draw a
triangle and it's the slave is you know
completely uneducated and uh that's sort
of proof that there is this kind of
primordial architecture and knowledge
and I believe also in the symposium it
was you know a knowledge of geometry was
somehow not only emphasized but almost
like a lit test for like admission.
So we could teach anybody this if we
just reminded them the right way or like
a something that Plato does in the Fato.
He has Socrates as he has Socrates say
in the Fato, which interestingly
Plato goes out of his way to say he
wasn't there
for for the the conversation of Fato. So
he oddly distances himself from it,
which is interesting. But
he um there you know the example is is
like you have a lover who played the
harp. Mh.
Now, the harp doesn't resemble them at
all, but the harp will remind you of
them.
Okay. So, like
I think what Plato's getting at is there
are things that we encounter in this
life that are utterly unlike
the ultimate truth, but then still
manage to remind us of it.
That's so interesting. Yeah. I mean,
like the light itself also feels like
this kind of um dual meaning there. not
dual meaning but it it's like an
inflection point where it could uh
either sort of eviscerate us or it could
kind of save us
and I think about technology now and it
has that sort of you know dual kind of
an inflecting you know um mechanism
where AI for example you know I love the
Marshall McLuhan quote every media
extension of man is an amputation we are
sort of outsourcing our agency to a lot
of these you know technologies that are
kind of paricetizing us especially after
the advent of information technology you
know, it used to be kind of augmenting
us and now it's sort of outsourcing, you
know, our abilities. Um, and then at the
same time, the ability to wake up uh
with information technology, you know,
if you're trying to learn about like
UFOs or like uncover all sorts of kind
of real conspiracies or or or issues
with the way that, you know, um the doct
do doctrineated the indoctrinated
history has been told or whatever, you
can now do that cuz you have the access
to all the information kind of at your
fingertips. So enlightenment is also
closer than ever.
Yeah.
But there's like that two-edged sword
like very thing like you and I no
internet. Jim and Jesse never meet.
Right. True.
Jesse never reads Jim's book. Jim never
like gets enlightened by your podcast.
Right. Yeah.
Totally.
But at the same time as like I I think
we're also being simultaneously undone
by that very same median.
It's fascinating. And so if you think if
you extrapolate that out into the
future, there are like two possibility
like if you have a Schroinger's cat of
you know possibility states of you know
mankind there's probably a whole wave
function but like on the one hand you
have
this like enlightened city state where
you know you have
people like Jim Jesse but a bunch of
other people talking about virtue and
like how to live a good life and you
know we have like access to like nuclear
fusion over unity or whatever like it's
all great right and then on the other
hand it's like nuclear or holocaust and
like you know and so
if that future is has somehow already
arrived in some paradigm outside the
cave
then I wonder if the cave itself is
actually a test
like it's one of because he there are
tests to become a guardian right like
that that wouldn't be disputed right so
is the cave itself
some sort of like low-level epistemic
like VR headset
where it's like you have to contemplate
virtue doing the right way, lead a good
life, and if you don't, you're not going
to make it out.
And if you do, you level up or
something. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Exactly.
And think of it, uh, and once again, you
know, like getting way over my pay grade
as a classicist, right? Okay. But like,
but there Plato I mean there there were
such things as pros treatise
as as as a literary genre at the time.
Okay.
But yeah, Plato writes in dialogue.
Okay. Now, we know Aristotle did, but we
but they we lost all those dialogues.
But like Plato writes in dialogue. So
why write in dialogue? like why are you
doing that? And it seems like cuz it
lets you play more and it becomes this
kind of like okay who's really paying
attention,
right? Like who's really understanding
what the narrative is doing here?
Totally. And there's something about I
love the word parapathetic like the
walking and talking and the dialogue
based learning where
it's like a you know a a caterpillar
into a butterfly or what like you need
the struggle in order to you you can't
circumvent the process in order to truth
is not like a file you're given. you
need to kind of engage.
And can I can I circle back to the light
metaphor? Yes. Okay. So,
I think it's important to note in the
republic, okay, and this could be we
could get interesting things with this
with later philosophy, too. But, but
Plato talks like he uses the sun
as this metaphor. And of course, it's
all like the sun's a pretty going
metaphor already. So, like you have you
have the Icarus myth, you know, where if
you like you want the knowledge of the
gods and you fly too close, you're going
to crash, right? So think of like like
by Plato suggesting that we could
glimpse the sun. This is very
transgressive stuff for for the time,
right? Y
um but he says that the thing with the
sun is it's the source of the light by
which we see everything else.
Okay. So then there's a question like
how could you see the sun?
Do you see you sort of like like it's
you'd have to take the glasses off that
you look through and look at them
without your glasses, right? And so I
think that's important in that for for
Plato, you're never going to be able to
point to the good.
You're never going to be able to point
to ultimate being because it's the
source by which anything else can be
illoomed to be pointed at. Right? So in
in any kind of like temporal empirical
sense, we're always going to fall short.
We're always going to fall short. Always
going to fall short
because it's it's sort of the horizon
against we can against which we can
judge things. It's not something in
front of the horizon that we can judge.
Right.
So it's sort of Plato, I think, is
predicting in this life perpetual
failure,
right? Yeah. Yeah.
It's f Yeah. And so, so, okay, I'm sure
a lot of people at this point in the
interview are thinking, Jesse, you have
a show about UFOs. That's right. What
the hell does any of this have to do
with UFOs? How did you even think to
reconcile you know people say you know
all all philosophy is a you know
footnote of Plato or whatever like he's
really the the the founder of western
philosophy. How did you think to
reconcile that with UFOs this sort of
modern craze of objects in the sky we
can't identify?
Yeah that's interesting question. So, um
I think like a lot of people I got kind
of, you know, triggered about the UFO in
like 2017 when, you know, when suddenly
it was okay to talk about this, you
know.
Um and then I remember in I think it was
2021,
I always tell the story, I was watching
X Files with my kids that summer
and it was right when the big first
Pentagon press conference happened
and I'm like, so I guess Mol was right.
I've never seen anything like it.
They've been going at it like that for
almost half an hour.
There've been this like switch like it's
it's suddenly they're saying no maybe
there's something to this which
you know my like basic immunal response
to everything is like to study right and
and to do scholarship. So I start
reading all the books and all that. And
I I think what what connected it with
Plato for me is just that that metaphor
of we could be really really wrong as a
consensus about what the actual nature
of being is,
right? I thought I was starting to see
the UFO was a great at least thought
experiment about that, right?
Does it seem at all plausible to me that
there could be something even in like
our nearly empirical reality that humans
are just like systematically missed
for our [clears throat] entire history,
right?
And it and the more I thought about it,
the more I thought about things that I
was already working on in philosophy of
mind and cognitive science and and
speculative metaphysics, it seemed,
oh, hell yeah. Yeah. we really could be
missing something that was like
concretely right there all along.
Yeah, absolutely. I mean even
prosaically in a modern scientific
context we see you know between 400 and
700 nanometers of the electromagnetic
wave spectrum you know our decibel range
is you know cut off and so like to say
that we are measurement sensors that are
limited inside of a larger reality I
don't think is too controversial. No.
And then you know do UFOs somehow speak
to that because they
seem weakly entangled with our reality?
They seem to be sort of ephemeral Jacqu
Valet you know which you write about
very eloquently in your book talks about
you know in Passport to Meonia and
others books. a lot of past mythology
involving, you know, the denisins of
Meonia like coming down on on clouds or
uh uh uh you know, all sorts of craft
with wheels of Ezekiel, you know, the
the the blazing shields of Rome. You
know, often it's these sort of this this
um protoarchitecture that's very true
and real and then we are sort of
recollecting it through the lens of sort
of modern mythology,
right?
Um so yeah, what do you what do you make
of that? Hey guys, I want to tell you
about my new favorite piece of apparel.
These are called the perfect jeans.
They're literally the perfect jeans. I
used to wear jeans all the time and
they're kind of rough and not super
stretchy or breathable. These are
extremely comfortable. They work in
casual environments. They work in work
settings. They come in six different
sizes from 26 in to 50 in. And they're
all around just amazing. For a limited
time, our listeners get 15% off your
first order, plus free shipping at the
perfect gene.nyc.
Again, that's the perfect gene.nyc
or just Google the perfect gene. Use
code jessie5 for that 15% off. Again,
that's code jesse15.
That's 15% off for new customers at the
perfect gene.nyc.
After purchase, they'll ask where you
heard about them. Please support our
show and tell them that we sent you.
[__] your khakis. Get the perfect gene.
One of the books that really turned me
on UFO, and I think partly because it
had a legitimizing, you have to honestly
say it helped legitimize the study of it
was Carl Young's book, you UFO, the the
a modern myth, modern myth of things in
the sky. And
it's interesting. Young makes this point
that, yeah, it's not entirely surprising
like right after the World Wars and in
the middle of, you know, the the the the
really scary years of the Cold War where
there's this nuclear threat um that
suddenly people are having a lot of
anxiety and it's being expressed in
these dreams and visions of, you know,
airborne technology that may or may not
be militarily threatening. and he has
this, you know, this his whole account
of it in terms of the mandala and like a
need to return to a new wholeness, that
sort of thing.
And so it it makes a lot of sense to me
that well, when when we're having
anxiousness collectively
that it's going to express itself in the
going metaphors of our era, right? Our
current like unconscious obsessions,
right? And and for us, it's technology,
right? But what I found really troubling
about and it's interesting when you read
Jung's book, it it's sort of like you
get a feel when he he starts out writing
it. He talks about it as like a a mass
rumor, right? He talks he does all the
stream analysis of it.
And then as the book goes on, it's like
it's getting harder for him to dismiss
it though. And if you've read it like at
the end he's like
and yet they're on radar.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
And yet they leave tracks.
Yep. And so it's like in some like you
know I'm I'm uh you very into
psychoanalysis okay and it's sort of
it's easy I think to dismiss a lot not
dismiss the wrong word to analyze some
of this stuff psychologically
and yet that that's the thing that like
that I keep coming back to is and yet
there do seem to be concrete effects.
Yeah that was Diana Pulka's experience
as well. She's this religious studies
professor at UNCC Wilmington. I don't
think she expected to, you know, and
she's writing about the Catholic concept
of purgatory in this book, Heaven Can
Wait, and then I don't think she
expected to start writing about UFOs in
some sort of, you know, I think this is
real sense. I think she wanted to write
about it and as some modern, you know,
kind of, you know, ephemeral religious
phenomena. Uh, and then all of a sudden
the second half of that book is like she
goes down the rabbit hole herself and
it's like, "Oh my god, I think there's
something extremely real."
You can see it like in similar to Young
in like real time as Diana's writing
this is she's like the view is changing.
Yeah.
It's f Yeah. It's like uh Yeah. Go for
it. Yeah.
And so like the uh
you know my take on the using going back
to the cave metaphor if that's okay.
Yeah. is
I I subscribe to some ideas in cognitive
science and philosophy of mind that
would sort of like make us think that
maybe the cave is not just a bug but a
feature of human cognition. And you sort
of alluded to this is that
if we're if we're faced with like a very
complicated reality, right,
it would seem one of the most important
things that we would be able to do would
be able to sort for relevance.
Okay? And so meaning like the the mind
may work and I think there's some pretty
good empirical stuff on this as much by
learning what to ignore as it does by
learning what to pay attention to. Okay?
And so you think of it then what are we
doing? I like this metaphor. We're
constantly carving a cave out. And like
the stuff that we do see it's there.
Okay. I'm not an idealist. Right? So the
stuff that we do see it's there.
The problem is it's it there's always
more there than it otherwise we couldn't
cognize.
You see that? Mhm.
Okay. So then though there's going to be
this really thorny problem always of
like how do we ever tease out?
Mhm.
Like what is just our carving out and
leaving something behind
okay
or as opposed to illusion as opposed to
what's really there etc etc. I think
once you admit that
there is a irreducible human
contribution to our perception of the
world.
Yes. how you ever tease those two things
back out is is going to be the thorniest
problem possible. Yeah.
Just admitting that uh opens your whole
your mind to a whole host of
possibilities. I love in the in early in
the, you know, this um uh the three body
problem, you know, in the Dark Forest
trilogy, this, you know, Chinese science
fiction novel involving aliens, UFOs,
you know, uh it's like the the farmer
and the shooter and you have, you know,
people on a 2D plane and bullets are
shot or bullet holes are shot into that
2D plane and to them that could just be
like, you know, little little craters
and they're probably flatland is another
good example.
19th century
where the people
holes could just be literally they're
not discretionary holes made by shooters
that they can't even perceive
right
and so uh we are we're inherently sort
of limited by our scope of of perception
and
making that argument is an a priori
assertion but denying that argument is
also an a priori assertion and so
there's you're at this kind of epistemic
impass visav modern science where If you
propose anything like that,
yeah,
they just have nothing to say. And then
you point towards like these ephemeral
glimpses of UFOs or people who have like
near-death experiences and you say
these things are much richer than than
meet the eye and then they say, "Oh,
your mind plays tricks on you, blah blah
blah." And you end up in this sort of
like
impossible to resolve argument.
Yeah.
Um
Yeah. Anaporia is like the classic.
Yeah. Sort of like it's a puzzle.
Oh, interesting. I've never heard that
con. That's awesome. And um one of my
favorite ways of putting this comes from
William James.
Yeah.
He has this great analogy he uses. He
thinks like humans are not unlike dogs
and cats running around a library
or not unlike our dogs when we're in the
living room having a conversation about
like the most, you know, highle stuff
and your dog's there thinking it's like
kind of hot [__] right? It's like doing
the dog thing and and of course all the
sounds and smells and stuff it it
encounters are really there.
Yeah. But it's a carve out from
something much richer.
Yes.
And but he's he's hearing what you're
saying, but it can't possibly mean
anything to him because it's just not
relevant to his way of being.
Totally.
Yeah. And it would be we think of things
like cellular automata or like you know
getting fungus to grow in certain ways
or whatever you know like is that that's
easy. It's predictable right? Yeah. We
could easily be cellular tatamita
automata in some larger system. Yeah.
Where you know you have the you know BF
Skinner you know Pavlov's dog you have
all these ways to like condition humans
like extremely easily like that that's
not that hard
and um how do we know that that's not
being done to us on some sort of grand
scale? And that's the Jacqu file kind of
control system hypothesis.
That was one of the things that really
turned me on was was that what here's
example just from the last 24 hours for
me. Okay. So, I live in a very small
town in rural Kansas. Okay.
And so, you know, I'm I'm here in Austin
visiting you
and it's it's you walk around when
you're used to being in a small town,
you're in this human context that's on
this incredible scale, right? And you
and you start to notice all the ways
you're being managed just by the
structure of the city and the structure
of the airport and all these way and and
you have this sudden sense you're you
don't have the same feeling of control
as you do say back in a small town.
Right. Okay.
And then it it always strikes me
whenever I fly into a major metropolitan
area how small and minor it looks
on the landscape as you come in. Right.
So it's like here I have a sense of I'm
somehow being moved around by a larger
reality just by being the city.
But then if we if we move out our
magnification a bit,
we'll see the city is itself just part
of this
much bigger ecosystem of things and and
it's not clear who's running that etc.
Right. And so it seems like our level of
magnification,
right?
Yes.
Like it affords different senses of what
the real substance of things are.
Yes. And you start to get into weird
ontological reality questions the the
more microscopic you get. Like um my old
colleague Eric Weinstein likes to talk
about he talks about and you write about
this in your book thevelt.
Yeah.
This sort of perceptive apparatus. He
talks about science as like you know a
continuous process ofvelt hacking.
He uses umbelt.
He does. Awesome.
Yeah. Yeah.
I feel vindicated. That's pretty cool.
Yeah. Yeah. or maybe he should be
vindicated by you. [laughter]
But um no, it's it is it's it's or even
you know Fineman says there's room at
the bottom, you know, and he's implying
that like the deeper your perceptive
apparatus gets, the more you're able to
probably understand, you know,
ontological truth. There's there's
another physicist named named Ken Wilson
where it's like the higher the energy
output, um you know, the the maybe the
more onlogical truth you get. He really
talks about in the case of you know uh
sort of phase transitions via materials
like you you put them under like high
duress you can understand properties
that you wouldn't without the duress
but I do think of like if we're in a
cave you know suspend disbelief say we
are just in this cave
well so I I'm
we are I mean it just it seems like
everything
inherently we are yes
like everything we know about how
cognition works I think shows agree
we are sorting for relevance thereby
we're ignoring more than and we've been
evolutionarily rewarded and like
programmed to ignore some things.
So So the two ways out of the cave would
be your own building your own perceptive
apparatus like your own uh working on
your own kind of cognition and sort of
raising your own consciousness. These
things are very hard to talk about
because it's hard to there's no formula
or whatever but you know that that would
be one way and then the second way might
be sort of uh physics that breaks the
boundaries of the cave. So it would be
like lighting a firecracker in the cave
or something.
And so I think about that with the
nuclear UFO connection.
But I I wonder about that even because
it's even let's say we get,
you know, like another scientific
revolution.
Okay.
But it's still got to come back and be
translated into the basic human
cognitive setup.
Like you like like it's still going to
have to like run
on this hardware,
you know? So, it's always going to go
back to somehow traceable to, you know,
modes of cognition that were developed
for our paleolithic ancestors.
Yep.
But I don't know. I mean, so yes, but
like the hardware is probably changing
too.
Yeah. Exactly. Yeah.
You know, and and it's always hard to
say on what time scales things will
happen because
I'm uh you know, I believe in Darwin,
but I believe in him as a locally useful
and incomplete theory. And I think you
know
Hoffman's thing. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. The Hoffman's thing or you
know you know even like there these
placeholder terms we use like punctuated
equilibria and evolution. And you know
Carl Pauper said
but and you're dead right to say though
it's not like
if we if we go the Darwinian route.
Yeah.
Okay.
Then the hardware is a moving target
too.
I agree 100%. Mhm.
Um but then but the thing of though is
any cognitive act that we would do to
change the hardware would presuppose
that
that prior hardware. So there's kind of
a loop there.
You know what I mean? So like whatever
whatever could be that change, it's
almost like it can't be within our
direct control.
Explain say that again
because like if let's say we're going to
re reset our basic cognitive apparatus
somehow,
but we can only do that based on
principles of our current cognitive
apparatus,
right? So we would never really be free
of that, right? So it looks like it
there's you're going to have that kind
of looping problem in there, right?
Yes. Yeah.
Yes. But then also
you can measure a thing like the
Copenhagen school like measures like an
electron and it's like this electron
doesn't exhibit properties that like you
look like normal macroscopic reality
and then that like puts you into this
brain scramble that like you know
increases your evolution
etc. Yeah. So it is this like positive
feedback loop or something. The way I
look at it is like we're always opening
the scope
on our Umbelt, okay? But it's still
tethered to that original
point, right? Cuz because we
we we got here this through this
evolutionary route and that's always
going to kind of flavor it,
right? So I agree like like what science
does is it opens it, right? And I would
even say even humanities in some cases,
I think literature can like
open us to new reels and things like
that. Okay? So it's opening it wider and
wider and wider but it's still always
going to come back to that same
origin point and it's always limited
then yeah
you have all these uh other myths that
deal with uh technology development and
you know like Prometheus being kind of
the archetypal one or or FA you know and
and usually it doesn't end well for
those seeking the light. So how do we
how do we interpret that in sort of a
platonic and and UFO context? So I got I
got really obsessed with Sophocles
Prometheus Bound the the the tragic play
and uh to the point I make all my
students read it now. [laughter]
And it's interesting that okay so the
the start of Sophocles's version of the
myth is uh Hesus the the god of smithing
is he's he's chaining up nailing down
Prometheus. Okay, which is ironic cuz
like what did Prometheus do is he like
he provided humans with all the arts.
Okay, like including smithing. So
basically
Prometheus is being bound by technology.
as the god that gives us technology but
he is bound by technology
right and in Sophocles's version force
who speaks for Zeus interesting he's
just pure blind force speaks there and
are kind of they're kind of mocking him
like your name and means fornowledge you
didn't see this coming and he's like oh
bro I saw it coming
I want this yeah okay and like later in
in the myth he even says I hate all gods
right
wow
yeah and He encounters Ian who you know
Io Io pard me who you know was uh who
rejected Zeus and she's a human gets
turned to a cow and he predicts a child
of yours in the 13th generation so it's
going to be Hercules right is the
prediction but in the 13th generation a
human child like long in the future bad
generation
is going to take out Zeus
okay you see and so like there's this
prediction of a kind of like you know
like like death of god assertive
humanism that's going to come out of
right
from a guy though who is being nailed to
a rock by technology itself right so you
can see I think I think even sophocles
there's a sense that humans are on rails
to a kind of self assertive
self-destruction
right
u because we are these technological
animals
you know how we're always diving into
the edge of science and consciousness on
this show lately I've been thinking a
lot about aging not just in terms of
years but in how it actually feels in
the body. Slower recovery, lower energy,
that middle-aged fog that sneaks up on
you. I feel like I can barely go out and
drink alcohol anymore. That's why I
started using something called
qualiaenolytic. And it's been a major
shift for me. Let me explain. As we age,
our bodies accumulate what scientists
call scinsesscent cells, also known as
zombie cells. These are worn out cells
that stop dividing but don't die. They
hang around in your body, draining your
energy, clogging up your recovery, and
generally making you feel older than you
are. Qualiosenolytic is a
firstofits-kind supplement formulated
with nine plant-based compounds designed
to help your body naturally eliminate
these zombie cells. It's not something
you take every day, just 2 days a month,
but it supports your body in aging
better at the cellular level. Since I've
started taking it, I've felt sharper,
lighter, and like my body's resilience
has come back online. It's vegan,
non-GMO, and grounded in serious
research. Experience the science of
feeling younger. Go to qualia.com/jesse
for up to 50% off your purchase and use
code jessie. Again, that's js e for an
additional 15% off. That's qu u l i a l
i f.com/jessej
ss e for an extra 15% off your purchase.
Thanks so much to Qualia for sponsoring
this episode. What does that mean as far
as our relationship to technology? One
uh essay that you write about in your
great book and Diana Pulka also talks
about is the question concerning
technology which is this this H
highaidiger essay. I would be lying if I
were to tell you that I understand this
essay. I've tried to read it a couple
times. [laughter]
It doesn't make a lot of sense to me.
It's a difficult Yeah. And it's that's
not the place to start Haidiger, but
it's like but it's where everybody wants
to get to.
Yeah. [laughter] I don't think I
understand Haidiger in general, but
Yeah. Okay. So, um
basically what what Haidiger is arguing
in that essay is the essence of
technology isn't a device.
Okay. He's he's very explicit about
that. So, so when Haidiger gets moody
about technology, he's not just moody
about how much like screen time we're
having.
Like he wouldn't be a fan, but like
you know toward like like he for him the
essence of technology is a certain
attitude towards being
okay like that's what technology really
is. Okay. and Haidiger, you know, thinks
it like there there wasn't like a
committee that met in in the early
modern period that decided we would just
like change civilization. Okay. But he
also thinks something happened such that
we started to ask a different kind of
question about nature than we did
before. Okay. And he thinks what what
happened is for some reason we began to
ask nature what can we extract from it
rather than how we can work with it.
Okay.
And so he thinks like what the essence
of technology is is an attitude of
extraction or or accessibility like like
what the world is is simply the
conditions at which it's accessible to
us.
Right. M
um and he thinks now he and he thinks he
can trace that back is like it's always
been in the making throughout the entire
western philosophical tradition
and it just it really bubbled up in the
modern period, right? [clears throat]
And so for him like he he thinks there's
no getting out of it cuz like we didn't
have a committee meeting to change
[clears throat] our attitude. So we're
not going to have a committee meeting to
get out of it. He's like we have to ride
this all the way down. Okay.
But he thinks if we admit that we're
stuck with this attitude, right? So like
the world like we're stuck thinking of
the world simply on the terms that it's
useful to us, right? If we make that
admission then we're kind of admitting
we're not really running things because
we can't really decide this for
ourselves.
And he thinks that will open us to maybe
something else could show itself to us
that would change our attitude to being
again.
Yeah. I I maybe this is a contrived
connection, but I think about
that, you know, probably very true
assertion that humans look at technology
as this like, you know, locally useful
thing for like producing and then they
port their own value into like how can
they work alongside technology to like
make things more useful or more
productive, which is a very narrow scope
of like what it is to be human. Humans
can write poetry, be self-referential,
you know, like we create culture,
but there's something about technology
that compresses humans into u, you know,
this like economically productive unit.
Um,
Haidiger was Haidiger was really worked
up the first time he heard someone use
the word human resources,
right? And he says because eventually
what's going to happen is we're going to
see ourselves in technological terms of
accessibility and use
and and and he's not just worried that
like you know Soilent green is people
like literally but I think he is for
everybody
listen to me Hatcher YOU GOT TO TELL HIM
silent green is people.
Um but he's he's worried that then we'll
we'll only have a means and attitude to
ourselves.
Yeah.
To everything. And and what his worry is
is this will lead us to what he calls a
certain kind of oblivion to being,
right?
Yeah.
Is like an oblivion like a forgetfulness
again, right? Full circle to Plato here.
Like a forgetfulness of what being
really is.
Yes.
Yeah. And we'll only see it as what it
is to us, how we can access it.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, the soiling green
analogy is f, you know, like that's
that's an extreme, right? where it's
like you know the Charlton H movie that
you know
metaphor
it's a great metaphor and you know allah
the Plato where you never know if it's a
metaphor or it's real I think he talks
about five stages of techn technological
development in that essay and one of
them is sacrifice and you think about a
lot of like uh
pagan scapegoating cycles and past
uh efforts at garnering sacred knowledge
or technology and they involve like kind
of brutal practices
Um, and I, you know, I think you could,
you could go all the way back to, you
know, uh, uh, ancient practices to, uh,
the Nazis trying to like sort of do this
at scale
for like forbidden knowledge and
technology.
Um, and I I it's funny because, you
know,
I think Chesterton actually draws, I
think, a connection between
um, you know, sort of uh, pre-cientific
magic
and technology.
Yeah. and like human sacrifice and
technology ideas that we if we just had
the right technique
we could force the world's hand to do
what we want,
right?
Yeah.
Right.
And certainly I think Gerard would see
something like that too. Yeah.
Oh. Oh, for sure.
Yeah. And there's a way in which tech
used to be like, you know, an
augmentation of a human. It was like an,
you know, extra appendage or something.
And then you know I think post
information revolution it's sort of
become this like paricitization of of
humans.
So Haidiger's like one of Haidiger's
great examples is he he compares
um like a hydroelectric uh dam to a
medieval windmill. Okay. Or a medieval
watermill. Okay. Cuz on those like say
in the medieval versions and I'm not and
I'm not saying we peaked in the 12th
century or something like that. Like I'm
I'm glad my wife can vote. Right. Okay.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Um, but like with the wind, like the
medieval windmill,
you it works when the wind blows. Okay.
So, you're like you're going to like
build something that makes you have to
work along with nature.
Yes.
Yeah. All right. Whereas the
hydroelectric dam for all its virtues
though, it's saying nature, I will take
from you what I want and store it.
Yep.
So, it's all on our terms, right? And
it's about how we access you, right? And
not how can we work with you.
Yeah. Yeah. It's it's mastery over
nature uh in a way. Yeah. It's not just
harmonizing with it with with nature.
Yeah.
Um and those two things are very
distinct. I mean there's the there are
two uh competing theories of the
inevitability of human evolution or or
of existence on earth and there's the
Gaia James love lock theory that you
know the earth is somehow like super
resilient and so like we might come and
go but that you know that the earth will
always sort of come back and then
there's the media theory which is like
you know we uh inevitably will like blow
ourselves up and like you know maybe
there's some evidence that that happened
on Mars or something and
um
yeah there there they're sort of
competing. There's and and and
definitely modern tech seems to be in
the category of just yeah being able how
do we control everything. If you think
about VR is like that to the limit where
it's like the entire world that like we
might be living in like is controllable
and so I don't know taking it like one
step further with the Plato thing. Do
you ever think like this is like we're
in these like biological skin suits?
Yeah.
There that are basically like VR
headsets and the contemplation of virtue
or you know some other criteria that we
don't fully understand are the means
through which we ascend through these
things into the light and become even
worthy of that next step outside of the
cave. Because I I I I also thought, you
know, the H Highaidiger thing might
connect where it's like we're porting
ourselves through these like low-level
economic production engines via
technology. I believe that also kind of
dovetales with a test that Plato uh puts
the Guardians through like at the age of
30 or whatever if you if you fail like
you don't get to study metaphysics. You
just like become the like the economic
producer whatever.
Yeah. So I think at this point is where
like a Haidiger and and Plato come
apart.
Okay. At least this is where Haidiger
becomes a critic of Plato's, okay?
Because
he would look at something like that
dialectical process in the Republic
whereby one like ascends to a kind of
enlightenment as a quai technological
attitude.
Okay. And whereas for Haidiger,
for him the metaphor is more like um
architectural
like [clears throat] you build a temple
and you hope someone shows up there.
Mhm. Right. Okay. And a lot of his later
work goes to this where he talks about
how we need we need artwork. Okay. But
meaning we need art that does the work
of art. And what is the work of art is
it it provides a place sort of like a
theater where an actor could show up for
us.
Okay. So for Haidiger it's like we're
we're more passive in the process okay
than than say for Plato where we be more
active in the process. like there there
would be you know a an educational
process that one could go through right
that would get you there right whereas
for H highaidiger it's like well
if divinity is going to show up for us
right if the transcendence is going to
show up for us then it cannot be our
doing
like and he thinks what's happened in
the modern world is because we we only
think of like what we can take and do
and grab and process right
um we need to regain an ability just to
build something
that is sort of receptive
rather than aggressively extracting.
Do you see that?
Yeah.
And I think for me, I probably lean more
towards Heidi than that.
Yeah.
Fascinating. Well, speaking speaking of
that, is the UFO a technology
that sort of uh is, you know, if there's
a push and a pull outside of the cave or
whatever, is is the UFO some sort of
pulling
uh technology? because you talk about
this where
it's this thing that it busts all of
your priors,
you know, it's like you have all these
like prior categorization techniques.
I didn't want to talk about this, right?
Today I did, but like ear, you know, 5
years ago,
but you find yourself obsessed because
it's it's it's inherently kind of
uncatategorizable.
Yeah, that's kind of where I land with
the as it were with the UFO is um it
seems like something's knocking,
right? There's some and maybe it's
always been knocking at the door, right?
you know, because we have different
metaphors for throughout history, but it
seems like something's knocking,
right?
And whether we listen to it through uh a
platonic, you know, process of
dialectical improvement or we listen to
it through a sort of Haidigerian
building a place where it could dwell,
right? That it seems that something is
trying to remind the human of something,
right? That's trying to jog our
memories. Like I like to use Plato's
metaphor. Um and and and and I'm not
really like I don't trust any of our
metaphors about it. You know, is it an
angel? Is it a demon? Is it, you know,
is it a is it an elf or a fairy? It
seems that all of that gives our
imagination too much of a pass, right?
But it does seem there is some pressure
on us from outside our right that we
would do well to at least strategize how
we would listen to. Yeah.
Yeah.
It's so fascinating. And so like how
does how does any of this comport with
like the way we discuss this stuff in a
government context because you know we
have like we're talking an extremely
high abstract level of the kind of
onlogical truth and then there's like
their government whistleblowers coming
out of saying that they've retrieved
UFOs one of whom I've had on my show and
like you know it's kind of hard to park
poke holes in his story like you know
felt like you know pretty primmaaccia at
least you know very very you know like
an honest account. Um, and so how do we
uh square that circle?
I don't know. I don't know that I can.
Yeah. And because see for me um and this
is not I am not like calling anyone into
question or anything like that, but like
so like
I have no special access to anything.
I'm just a average dude. Right. Okay.
Right.
And so I have to always ask myself like
what's more likely like what this
person's telling me is true. And they
could be they could be speaking a
falsehood and not be lying. I'm not
saying anyone's lying or anything like
that. Like you always have to weigh like
is this testimony true,
right? Against the probability that this
someone this person's been somehow
deceived or etc. etc. You know what I
mean?
And just taking like whether you know
it's any of the whistleblowers.
I'm I don't know how I can really weigh
that out. Yeah.
Do you know what I mean? So like um
let's say you know we we talk to
whistleblower you know Roy, right? Okay.
And you know we ask Roy, hey you know
yeah you've you've been told this this
this and this by all these people and it
seems unlikely that they're all in on
something that seems unlikely. Okay.
But then it seems really unlikely that
these things they're telling you is true
too.
Right.
Right. Yeah. Of course.
This an old argument from David Hume
about miracles. And so we have to weigh
that.
Yeah. And it seems to me like I I can't
even really make a meaningful comparison
of those probabilities.
Well, I would I would say in the the
world in which like forbidden knowledge
is a a a real thing that there's some,
you know, cleaving off of like black
world science or knowledge, you know,
the government would be attempting
systematically to get that, you know,
just from a game theory geopolitical.
You have to assign some plausibility.
Yep. to to like maybe well the thing is
is as soon as we do that and this and
this gives me fits. So as soon as we So
I think no matter what now
you've got to have a pretty unlikely
conspiracy theory
cuz either like this has been covered up
for 75 years, right? You know what I
mean? Or there's something really weird
going on now where it seems like now
people want us to believe it,
right?
So either way, you've got like a low pro
primmaaccia low probability conspiracy
theory you're going to have to take
one way or another. And then I always
ask myself the question like, you know,
cuz of course you have to go back and
forth, but like I'm like, why are like
some of these people are like very high
level in prosaically important
government, military, and science roles?
And I'm like, if we are in some like
multipolar new cold war,
why are you systematically sending all
of these top guys to like sigh up the
American population? That that seems
crazy. Yeah,
that seems crazier than you know as a
null hypothesis than the inverse which
is just like actually this has been
going on for you know thousands of
years.
See there's where I think you and I come
apart. I don't know which is crazier.
Sure. Sure. You know what I mean?
Well, I'm more in that like you know I'm
waiting through the waters of speaking
to all these people.
Yeah. But but I think I I do think you
have to say now that
I I mean I it's been on the floor of the
Congress and things like that that it
has to
that's got to pump the probability up a
little bit, right?
Yeah. Yeah. You know, but not I don't
know if all the way, right? Cuz
Well, it's funny like as I say like
people don't think correctly, I think.
And so that's a sort of crazy thing for
me to say.
I know. But it's like you you could just
say like New York Times, Congress,
Schumer amendment. Uh you know, you say
these things, somebody who holds AQ
clearance and then all of a sudden they
go, "Oh, credentials." They go,
"Whatever you say next as far as what
they believe, I now believe." And then
you could go into all these sort of
first principles like more interesting
inquiries into like how reality works,
Allah, what we're doing now. Yeah.
And it's like it's not even wrong or
like unfalsifiable or like crazy or
whatever cuz you you need to somehow uh
their receptors around like you know
credentialism need to be like met first
and then they're like oh let me listen
you know it's like that's just not the
way you should
Yeah. sort of
you might have heard about uh some of
the honest placebo studies.
No.
Okay. So apparent I'm probably not
getting all the details right, but
apparently there are cases where there
have been experiments where they told
people this is a placebo. This is an
inert substance
and we're giving it to you.
It still helped.
Still helped.
I believe that if the person giving it
to them
still had like the lab coat.
Yeah.
Right. And and the it was in the right
kind of packaging. Like so like if some
you know dude shows up the door and
gives you a bag of pills and it's
probably not going to work, right? But
like but like if someone dresses up like
a doctor, like an authority figure, all
the credentials, right?
Yeah.
Yeah. So I think we have to really
mistrust.
Totally. Well, and there's certain
people who have an a priority
disposition towards magic and then
others who don't. And then that becomes
their reality. Like it's it's like the
Plato thing where it's like everything
I'm going to tell you is a lie. And like
then why would you say that? And you get
all confused. And then he goes on to
tell some like stuff that like there's
clearly some truth in it. Exactly. And
then you know maybe there are some lies
but like you're extremely intrigued
there there are layers to there's this
like Leo Strauss this you know you know
20th century philosopher he was a big
big uh you know platonist too and
he also thought those books were
fullized
totally but then you'd never know if he
was writing in a coded fashion himself
and so it was like and then like the
people around him like had these like
weird communication techniques and so so
it's this neverending thing and you
could say the
exoteric
is uh implying meaning that doesn't
exist and the esoteric is like the room
and you know is actually empty when you
get to it and it's like it's all some
coordination mechanism or you could say
the exoteric is throwing people off the
trail and this and the more you like
talk about that meta sense then you're
going and you you've created this cult.
Yes.
And it's [laughter]
Yeah. and and and so um I actually do
this in the book where I say
okay
what using the example of the of the tic
tac okay so what's my evidence of the
tic tac well this you know seemingly
very reliable air force pilot and you
know said and Alex [clears throat]
Dietrich and um
David Fra they've said these things
right systems
yeah okay and so so I have like
testimony from seemingly reliable people
right okay
um and if You say, "Yeah, but it it like
how can you buy that?" But yet, like I
only know Bin Laden was shot.
Yep.
Because of testimony.
Yeah. From that came through the media
through reliable like Pentagon
officials. I only know. And now, of
course, maybe some of that stuff we
shouldn't
be so quick to believe, too. Do you know
what I mean? But it seems to me you've
got to put it on the spectrum of
believability now.
Of course.
Yeah.
But it's like Yeah. If I you say like we
detected a cork or whatever through like
some particle accelerator.
I have to take Eric's word for that.
Yeah, me too. Yeah. And Eric has taken
other people's word for that because
he's a theoretical guy and he's not
doing the experiments. And so it's the
consensus reality
if you really get down to it can just be
totally managed.
Yeah. I And I I think I mean that that
has been known since Plato.
Mhm.
Yeah. You know what I mean?
I agree. So, so what do I do with like
say disclosure movement stuff like that?
Yeah.
And the UFO is is I'll admit I I now am
like self-consciously aloof to it.
That's cool. I like that. I'm starting
to be like that, too. Yeah.
I had a friend tell me yesterday or two
days ago,
Chris Ramsey has a great channel called
Area 52. He goes,
"I'm not really into disclosure." He's
like, "I'm into UFOs."
And I was like, "I like that. That's
pretty awesome." Yeah. this whole like
dramatic process of like these people
and the blah blah blah and it's it's
like it's fascinating and I find
some of the people very heroic and
courageous and I I've loved all the
people who I've been lucky enough to
have access to on the show but
ultimately it's like
does that get you closer to some
primordial truth is there you know there
there plenty of things can be true
little te true or whatever and there can
be ulterior motives involved as well and
it's I To me it's it's a lens through
which you can you know go to the deeper
stuff and some of them have are going
through their own processes and
journeys. You talk to Jake Barber, David
Grush or any of these people like
they're
it it's opened up their worldview and
they're like you know they're diving
into like what they want to know about
like reality as well but uh yeah some of
the contemporary kind of you know drama
is not you know always the best inroad.
And uh right now, let's say, you know,
you said, you know, we're off the air,
Jim, and I'm gonna show you.
Yeah.
Here's what they showed me.
Yeah. Yeah. I got the real stuff. I
would have to say,
okay, but then why would I believe
Jesse?
Yeah. Totally.
Do you mean why are you showing me?
Why are you showing me? You know what I
mean? So, it seems like
and this is like one of the
frustrations. Even if you found out, you
haven't found out.
Right. Right. Right.
Right. Yeah. Well, that's why, you know,
my if I had to make a prediction, I
think contact or like true like more
disclosure, you know, disclosure will be
inherently this sort of jagged process.
Well, you maybe you'll have 20% of the
population still holding out saying
like, you know, this is just impossible
or whatever. But, you know, say there's
some big event in the next few years.
My strong bias would be that that event
does not come through some like power
structure on down disseminated message
from like government officials. It's
like some weird surprising thing.
Yeah.
Um and if it's if it's not that it it
won't hit people epistemically in the
right way.
Yeah. Cuz think
they'll be skeptical forever.
So think of it like right now evolution
has been taught in public schools at
least in most private schools for
generations, right?
But how many Americans believe it?
Yeah.
Not everyone. [clears throat] Yeah. Like
the Big Bang's been taught.
Yeah.
How many Americans believe it?
Not everyone. You know what I mean? Like
you could you could even have something
become like educational orthodoxy
and it doesn't necessarily move the
needle for everyone, right? So like what
what would even like disclosure
look like in a way that actually had
grip on people's daily lives.
Totally. And and then you Yeah. And then
it's like okay, you see a saucer in a
hanger. The hangers at an official site.
You see some government official who you
know you trust cuz they're cabinet level
or they're the president unveiling the
thing.
You have all these questions. Then you
step inside the thing, you have all
these questions. The scientists probably
working on this stuff
don't know exactly what they're looking
at and have all these questions. And so
it becomes this neverending quest.
Yeah.
Um and yeah, so yeah, the the the
philosophical question of like what is
disclosure? And meanwhile, what you
could be doing is just working on your
own perceptive filter or apparatus. If
you treat yourself like an you know
anvelt you know lens or whatever work on
the lens.
Yeah. And so for me you know it it
becomes
you know less you know what are we going
to like not that even really ever was
like what are we going to get the
government to tell us?
It's more can I can I come up with a
philosophical metaphysical cognitive
model y
where it makes sense
that like the where we would expect the
unexpected to happen. And I think yeah,
we can I think I think that does make
perfect sense, right?
And so then the question now is just
okay, how do we digest that,
right? Do you know for ourselves in in
in our friendships, in our classrooms,
all that that becomes it, right?
You know, I'm not looking for
authorities to tell me what to do,
right? Yeah.
Absolutely. Yeah. No, that uh that's
that that you become limited in your
ability to derive truth if you
inherently if you do that. And um I I
think I don't know I'm curious to get
your take, but I think we are li
literally in uh uh Plato's cave and not
only all the stuff we talked about
around like decibel ranges or
electromagnetic wave spectrums, but look
at like physics itself. There's um you
know the the weak enthropic principle
and there's a strong enthropic
principle. And the strong enthropic
principle is like well you know
eventually like you you'll have enough
iterations that like you know like the
universe will foster life. And then the
weakanthropic principle is like the
limits of our perceptive you know
capabilities like make physics comport
with our perceptive capability which is
so obviously true like I think the idea
that plank's constant if you were to
change it slightly like you wouldn't
have a habitable earth doesn't point
towards like oh you had like a million
tries and this was like the right try to
me it's like physics itself is
comporting to our perceptive
limitations. And again, that's like an
unanswerable question. You can endlessly
sort of debate.
Are we ever going to tease out the human
from the non-human?
Well, once we admit
there's a human contribution to any of
our teasing out.
Yes.
We're always going to be like
loop. Yeah.
Yes. But and then the second you admit
that the human that the observer
observed distinction breaks down. Yeah.
Which like Jung would say, I don't know,
a bunch of people would say like
you then have to like look inwards. And
you don't have to look inwards. If you
are this like, you know, in just a this
biochemical like meat suit, you know,
happy accident, then it's like you feel
sad like take an SSRI. Like you feel,
you know, you're you're uh
you're you're confused about something
like, you know, just learn the trit
information. There's there's very little
uh aesthetic sense as to how to uh
decode yourself, right? And I do think
like the this to the limit ends up in
this sort of endless interiority kind of
self-indulgence thing. But I think a lot
of people miss that today as to how how
to sort of grow your own
ability. Good point, Jesse. I think
there's a difference between this sort
of um [snorts]
really like kind of uh fil
work on yourself thing, right? And as
opposed to like what would it be to
cultivate real interiority,
right? Yeah. And I I think it's a really
great distinction. Yeah. Do you think
like the next ep epistemological or
scientific paradigm involves
uh bringing the observer into you know
the the observed or there's there's
something about working on us uh that uh
coincides with what we perceive? I mean
this would go back to like alchemy
itself which a lot of the early
scientists
in a lot of ways although you we could
talk about how it's gone off the rails
right like this has been you know one of
the central philosophical paradigms
since Kant
you know where
like once we try to tease out the
numinal from the phenomenal right you
know that that for us as opposed to that
which things are in themselves
con like you you'll get nowhere except
ethically right he thinks we can know
things in themselves
in in terms like like moral matters,
right? But that's it.
And so I think in much of western
philosophy since Kant has like been
dealing with that. Now it's gone off the
rails really badly in many ways. Okay.
But I think
and then you we can look in the
sciences, you know, the hard sciences
the same thing like like the you know
like this idea that we're ever going to
like tease out the observer from the
observed. Yeah. Right. You in a lot of
ways
this already is the paradigm in a lot of
like serious thought. It's just the word
just never gets out.
Yes.
Right. Yeah, it's also interesting how
science itself might be converging on
more of a platonic worldview where you
have in increasing popularity uh the
work of like Rupert Sheldrake uh you
know these morphic fields or Michael
Leaven where there's this interaction
between biological forms and their local
information fields that dictate their
morph morphology or function in the case
of like inherited learnings uh that seem
to transcend pure kind of genetic etic
inheritance and um often comports with I
mean you even who knows if this like
theory of consciousness is correct with
microtubules with you know Roger Penrose
has has this orchestrated objective
reduction thing but that involves these
like you know pyramidal tubulant
structures in the in in the brain you
know it all maybe maybe we end up just
back to like helenic times like talking
about these like you know sacred
geometry and stuff
well you know you know a little off that
but like overlapping you you know
Sheldrick has this really interesting
paper uh is the sun conscious
I love that
which he answers affirmatively right and
you can see similar work I'm I'm
forgetting his name now but an American
analytic philosopher in the last few
years published a paper arguing that
the United States is probably conscious
entity
and and both Sheldrake and this other
paper are making the point that well if
we know that a certain kind of
organization
causes the emergence of conscious
consciousness in us and and I think
whatever you think consciousness is it's
hard to deny that this or where these
organizational structures show up you
get consciousness right
well Sheldrake makes the point well it
looks like we can see those kinds of
organizations in other places and he
makes a case maybe the sun etc etc right
and so then I think what you're doing is
you're getting a a universe sus with
consciousness right
but in a way that isn't um like
irresponsibly spooky either I I think
that's very important. Yeah.
Yeah. Well, it's like sort of fractals
of consciousness on up and and there's a
sort of cybernetic village or something
and then there's a the individual nodes.
Yeah.
Um and even, you know, if you think of
us as like individual nodes, uh that
totally comports with Michelle Drake's
stuff around, you know, if you grow an
organic crystal structure, uh you can
then grow that crystal structure much
faster on an ongoing basis. Or like look
at athletic accomplishments which is
similar to his morph aggressive
guy breaks the 4-minute mile then a
bunch
exactly the banister effect and if you
think about how computers work in in you
know kind of node systems uh download
times are much faster than upload times.
So the first time you do a thing it's
going to be really hard and it's going
to be you know really painful. And then
the second time anybody even related to
you in your node network does it because
they're, you know, querying it from some
central monad repository of information
that download is going to be much
faster.
I did not know that with a download
upload. Yeah,
it's it's interesting, right? Like
literally like the way and and then you
get into all sorts of interesting stuff
around you know what is DNA looks like
binary code
and what you're moving to there is then
like a fundamentallyorked world.
Yes.
Yeah. And
Yes. Yeah. and but in a way that
comports with literal observable. I mean
buddies with this guy Jim Keller who's
this legendary chip maker like the
iPhones and you sorry the chips in many
of our iPhones like literally are based
off of his architecture. He worked at
Tesla and he's like it is remarkable how
much uh you know uh uh uh human uh uh
the the human looks like a semiconductor
in many ways. and he goes through all
these like you know yeah specifics
around that and like how you know we're
like conductive and then he goes through
you know the DNA and like you know it's
like binary codes like transistors
um and then and then and then this this
you have this burgeoning field of
quantum biology and so you have to
wonder are we getting information from
like non-local you know like like
William James would say like there's
some sort of transmission going on
and if you're put a person in a fairday
cage uh the fact that they can think
points against that theory because if
you were getting it from a traditional
RF signal, the Faraday cage would kill
the RF signal.
But if you get into these like weird
spooky new science, you know, extended
electronamics where you have these sort
of scalar, you know, field w, you know,
wave types or whatever, um, which a lot
of people seemingly, you know, high up
in government seem to get behind, then
maybe the sun is, it is a scalar wave
generator. And then maybe we're getting
information from the sun and get getting
information from all sorts of places.
Maybe the aristoilian model of the sun,
you know, um being the source of like
knowledge is just it's just true or
something.
Yeah.
And and I think a lot of that stuff too
is like okay without getting hung up on
like the repatilian science you because
I think as soon as we say that like are
you are we are we
geocentris? No. No, that's not the
point, right? The the point though is is
the world a set of interlocking
conscious hierarchies,
right? I think that that's the question.
Yeah.
And that seem Aristotle seems to be I
mean you write about it that that um
uh the existence of non-human
intelligence or aliens
totally comports with an arisatilian
worldview.
I mean they're not for Aristotle, you
know, I mean literally the planets are
intelligences, right? So they're not
flying ships or something like that. But
the idea that things are in a way
affected [clears throat] or managed by
non-human intelligence for Aristotle is
is apparent in his view. Yeah.
Do you think that you know the AI is
like all the all the rage right now that
maybe our world is being sort of managed
by uh an AI system that knows how to you
know the the Jacqu fillet control system
thing. It knows how to nip at the herd.
So like a nuke, you know, is about to go
off, it shows up. You know, a human node
like reaches a certain state of
consciousness, it shows up
and it's like this sort of like Earth
sustenance kit and we're not seeing the
aliens. We're seeing like the the envoys
that they the vonoman replicators that
they sent out to like manage us.
So there's a um a film that I mean I saw
in high school, right, that like it's
been with me since then, right? And
there's it's based on a novel um
failafe. Okay. And I think it was
originally made in like 196364.
Okay. So it's a cold war film about uh a
nuclear war that gets started by
accident.
Okay. And throughout the film it like
really what we're being shown is how
humans have become utterly irrelevant to
the process.
Okay. like like it's it's and like
there's before early in the film there's
like
people are regretting that we have to
use humans.
Okay. All right. So the human is
becoming irrelevant. And it's very clear
in the film and this is this is before
in the popular imagination artificial
intelligence is a thing like that's not
a proposal of the film at all.
But already just based on regular
mechanical
uh operations the film is proposing that
we are being run.
We are being run by things that we put
into play. M
okay. And and the kind of rationality
this is lending us to is like
it's sort of like um I think in a lot of
ways AI is a self-fulfilling prophecy
like the more
the like the the more we think in terms
of certain kinds of mechanical
intelligence right the more we make
ourselves easier to mimic by machines.
Do do you see that?
Yeah. And so I already in the 1950s
and60s people were worried that we're
putting technological balls into play
that will come back to us as if gods.
You see what I mean? Yeah.
Right.
Um there's someone I refer to in the
book is a very underappreciated 20th
century philosopher, Gunther Anders.
Um this is definitely something he's
worried about that we're like let like
he thinks we're we're kind of we're
we're creating Prometheus. We're letting
Prometheus loose. Yes.
And then in these technologies and then
those things will come back and run us.
Yeah. It's like creating a a Gollum or
summoning a demon or something and then
and then you sort of obsolete yourself
in the process
and you can and already in the 50s and
60s before there was any hint of AI in
the popular imagination
this notion of human obsolescence was
already in play
totally
that we we are going to make ourselves
irrelevant to the world that we're
making. The the best you can do at that
point is let the program run and
probably try to think about what makes
you unique from the machine.
Yeah, exactly.
And then try to ascend out of, you know,
whatever paradigm you're existing in.
But I do Yeah. This obsession with AI VR
or whatever.
It's like if we're in a cave, why would
you port yourself into like a lower
level, more bit compressed?
We're like demoting ourselves. you're
demoting yourself and like we're
willfully doing that when like this
whole thing could be a test.
And so I always found that so
fascinating with this sort of obsession
with like
we need to build like higher fidelity
worlds. Like if you watch Ready Player
One
that's not like a good world like the
guy's living in a shanty town and then
like the the AI VR thing is like an
escape.
Yeah. So a lot of times people ask me so
you know am I worried about AI etc etc.
My reply is I think the game was done 80
years ago,
right?
You I think like I would even look at
things like the Manhattan Project where
you had this thing this like
technological hyper object that like
took off and like nobody really knew
what was going on.
Yeah.
Like think of like you know if you watch
the film Oenheimer like you get three
different answers from Oppenheimer why
he wants to do this.
It's like it's who's running this now.
Yeah.
The technology is running this.
Prometheus is running it
completely. Yeah. And I had such a
fascinating time where it was like
clearly this big inflection point. He
had
such interesting philosophical kind of
objections around what he was doing. He
was sort of reluctantly doing it but he
like you know he needed to do it on some
level
cuz it's just going to happen.
It was just going to happen or
something. And then he and then he kind
of decamped from that and it was like
Teller was more in that sort of it's
going to happen so we might as well sort
of build it ourselves. Um, and it is
this very Prometheian Foustian sort of
story and it's it's ultimately kind of
kind of tragic. And then it also
you have to wonder at that time because
that's when all the UFOs pop up.
Exactly.
In our visible reality, you know, at
least according to all the lore and
there's a lot of lore
under this new interpretation
like appearing as technology, right?
Yeah.
Yes. Yeah.
Well, it's also like maybe, you know, to
the extent the guardians want to keep
the test going or something,
if we build like, you know, a
firecracker in the cave or we build a
bomb in the cave, they're like they're
trying to like def, you know, diffuse
like, you know, some of these things and
keep keep the test going or whatever.
And you know it's like does something
super unprecedented happen when we
discover um you know the myth makers
when we when we have when we develop the
perceptive apparatuses through high
energy output or through some sort of
ascended consciousness to like
see who's like messing with us
and does that just unravel reality
and think of like the the cosmic meaning
of like humanity
discovering that we could take ourselves
out.
Do you see you know what I mean? Like it
it has to change us
in ways that none of us have probably
really dealt with. Yes.
In our unconscious, right? That we now
know
collective suicide is a possibility
through humanity.
Yes.
Which was not an option until
the 1940s. Did you know?
Yeah.
And and so what what like how does that
how is that a firecracker going off in
our own belt?
Yes.
Like how is that going to change our
ability to see what's there or or miss
what's there? ETA, etc. Like it has to
have an effect,
right?
This is part of Young's point.
Yeah,
totally. And so what do you what role
does religion play in all of this? Cuz I
I love you talk about this like uh
Janice, you know, the the two the
two-sided face or whatever. Um that that
uh religion plays a dual role of uh
sort of sending you down the wrong path
at times, but also pointing you to the
sacred.
Yeah.
And so yeah. Well, how do you how do you
view religion? There's there's this
really interesting passage from
Aristotle that I use in the book where
he he's just gotten to the end
of his natural theology. So, he's just
given his argument for an unmoved mover
and along with that comes this whole
kind of romantic cosmology, you know, of
his. I don't mean that in a in a
dismissive way, right? But like where
everything's revolving trying to get to
the unmoved mover and all this, okay?
And and then and then he says, "This
shows that our ancestors, our most
ancient ancestors were not wrong when
they posited that there was a divinity
surrounding nature and things happened
according to the the the the means of
divinity or something like that. But
then he says, however, that got co-opted
into stories that were told for legal
purposes."
Okay, so he kind of gives you a nichian
genealogy right there of the going Greek
religion, right? And then he ends the
passage by saying, "But we can be
interested in these more primordial
tales because they now fit with what
we're discovering philosophically."
Okay? So it seems for Aristotle,
religion can go two ways, right? It can
be it can be co-opted into these, you
know, legal political things, right? Or
it can be a way of sort of I think what
he's saying here is like a kind of
intuitive re revelation
can be out in front of what we can prove
scientifically, philosophically and like
kind of guide the inquiry in a way,
right?
Yeah.
Um so he's worried about how
uh the religious interpretation of this
stuff can be co-opted,
right? But it doesn't have to be either.
M and you have you know speaking of true
knowledge as some sort of sense memory.
Yeah.
Um that that is not you know the five
sort of lower senses.
Yeah.
And you know we should probably talk
about the myth of air which you know the
end of the Plato Plato's Republic which
you talked about.
Um that is such a fascinating myth also
kind of I think dogmatically taken as
allegory by you know modern scholars.
What do you what do you make of that
story? And maybe maybe rehash the story
for the audience.
Yeah. So, uh, in in the in the Republic,
uh, uh, Er was a was a a a virtuous
person. He dies in battle for the city
that does all the Greek good stuff,
right?
And he goes he goes, you know, and then
it it's it's all wound up with fairly
conventional, you know, Athenian views
about about the afterlife. So he crosses
the river sticks and you know all the
right gods are there and but then it
comes to a point where um there's kind
of a drawing of lots you know for where
you're going to go in the next life.
Okay. And what's interesting is
one of the great rewards of the virtuous
is they don't care what lot they get
because they know no matter what they'll
be okay
because they're they're going to have
the the the excellences that carried
them through they'll have it. Right.
Okay. So that's interesting. All right.
And so the you know we everyone gets
their assigned position for the next
life and then they return and
interestingly we mentioned this earlier
um they all have to sleep next to the
river of forgetfulness before they
return but the only one who doesn't
drink is
m
okay so the the virtuous person
remembers right and now no one the
virtuous person is indifferent to their
lot in temporal life. Okay be why?
Because they remember right because they
know there's something else. Do you see
that?
So, I know people will make something of
it. Is this uh a recollection of a
near-death experience for Plato or or
maybe like the Illusian mystery? Maybe.
Like I'm I'm perfectly open to that,
right?
Um I I don't really have the the
classical scholarship to weigh in on
that, right?
But I do think what we're being told
there is there's a kind of confidence,
right, in the virtuous person, right?
and a kind of in touch with right like
just put it an in touch with being with
the good that the virtuous person has to
see that yeah
you know what I mean so that that's that
is to take it allegorically but it but
it's in a way that would like make a
concrete difference for conduct
yes
do you think that Plato because I you
know
I do I look at the Elucinian mysteries
and I know you know it's probably hard
to say historically whether these you
know what exactly happened here Brian
Mir rescu
they were definitely up to you have this
place 13 miles northwest of Athens, this
you know considered the spiritual
capital um that you know you had uh uh
Greek leaders and Roman emperors saying
this sort of held together societ the
fabric of society and you'd have these
sort of you know guardians back then if
you will uh Plato Socrates
Alabiades was famously in trouble for
talking about the mysteries when he
wasn't you know he was at a festival
exactly don't talk about
Um and and they all undergo these sort
of they they drink the kekon which is
maybe as speculated by Brian Morescu
this sort of urgot that contains LSD
this you know sort of fungal derivative.
What was wine in the ancient world right
and could it have been spiked with
mushrooms or other um visionary plants
hallucinogenic herbs toxins. Um I think
that that that is a really interesting
question
and um that unveils this sort of greater
ontological reality or maybe they
experienced noises, you know, kind of
primordial knowledge or something. Um do
you think that was real and informed
Plato?
I I have no reason to rule that out.
Does that make sense? You know what I
mean? Like in in a lot of ways
it's not like it, you know, it's it's
not like we discovered, you know, like
peyote at Woodstock.
Yeah. Yeah.
Do you mean like this stuff has been
around, right? You know what I mean? I
think there's
you know what I mean? So I would be
surprised if that wasn't and we know
it's been around religion and all that,
right? Okay.
I mean in like various pagan religions,
etc. So So I'd be surprised if there
wasn't something like that going on.
Does that make sense?
It does. It's just so funny how we in
the modern age of disenchantment
paint uh Plato over with this broad
brush of like it's all allegory. He is
the father of Western civilization. It's
the birth of rationalism. Yeah. And it's
like, well, I don't know. I think the
guy was going to elucing some weird
[__]
Especially when you read some of the the
dialogues like Fadris and the symposium,
desire and love are running a lot,
right? Okay. And
um I think that's important to note,
right? And and I think in whatever
whatever the mysteries were, right?
It does seem like it worked like this is
like you you got like a cheat code to
the goal line, right? And then you then
you go back and spend the rest of your
life trying to think your way back to
it.
Do you see what I mean?
I do. Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah. You you you immediately like can't
fully recollect what you saw with the
light. Yeah, it's almost like I was
actually talking to David Gush about
this in my interview with him and he was
like it's almost like the symbol rate is
too slow. Like you literally can't even
communicate it in in words.
Um
how do you show the light by which we
see other things? Right.
Right.
Yeah.
So you end up you know maybe Jesus was
one of these people maybe not but like
prophets famously speak in riddles and
allegorories and parables and it's it's
it you have to parse their their word. I
mean, you got the sense, you know, we
were talking before the show, uh, uh,
Jacques Valle, um, you know, was just on
Joe Rogan and, uh, you know, um,
when I speak to Jacques,
I get the sense that, uh, he knows a lot
more than he can even communicate with
this stuff
and he speaks in these sort of riddled
coded parables.
And not just because of like security
clearance like it's like it's
inarticulable. It's inarticulable and
like well the message will you know it's
like the people with ears to hear like
the message will reach the right yeah
people but it's not like this thing
where it's like this happened at this
time you get it now this is it that's it
you know it's like no if you kind of
knew if you knew that you'd ask more
questions and it's all it's just
the whatever the truth is is like
inherently
hard to you know uh
I've I've been reading uh a lot of uh HP
Lovecraft's horror stories lately.
Yeah. Right.
Maybe more than I should, but um it's
interesting like like so Lovecraft has
this like really pessimistic dark view
of the of the world. Okay.
But yet
there's always this other thing
that's operating
that's inarticulable.
You you know what I mean?
And so it seems like like even someone
like Lovecraft who has this just dark
dark of the universe and and it's
hopeless. Yeah,
it there's still this like shopenharian
will
operating, but you can't he can't
articulate it for you or the characters
can't articulate it, right? It's always
it was there,
right? Yeah. And I think I think
although I don't think Plato has that
dark sense, but it's some you have
similar thing in Plato, right? Yeah. And
I think I think a lot of us have this
sense that there's
another factor.
Yeah. Totally. Or like when I was
speaking to Diana Pulka, she said like
Christians are not of this world. that
it was both this very hopeful statement.
Yeah. You know, where it's like
there's other stuff out there,
you know, and like maybe the kingdom of
heaven is real, but it was this
extremely on the flip side of that. It
was almost not not nihilistic cuz you
have that other thing there,
but it was like this world sucks
[laughter] and isn't and isn't going
anywhere super positive and like at most
you can like save yourself
and then like
hope to tip off the initiation of like a
few other people or whatever and that's
it.
You know, it's like the idea of saving
this world is that's tough. And I always
I find it to true to me too when
I don't know when somebody has some
super virtue signalally like I'm going
to save a world. Think about like the
the 20th century was sort of the the age
of ideology and utopian sort of you know
like visions
and they all ended up in like mass death
and like extremely dysfunctional.
So like that the technocratic solutions
don't really work.
So uh at a certain point in the republic
um I forget whether it's Glacon or
Adamantis you know the says to, "Well,
they've just got through, you know, some
of the absurdities, you know, like we're
going to have to share wives and we're
going to take your kids. You won't raise
your own kids and
like, well, you like sex will only
happen once a year, like a rigged
lottery at spring break kind of thing,
okay?" All this stuff. And one of the
guys says, "I don't want to. This is
terrible. No one's going to do this.
Like, this this is unworkable, right?"
And Socrates replies by saying, "Oh,
yeah, you're right. But it's the ideal."
Okay. And he says, "If I painted you a
picture of the most beautiful human
form," and he said, "Well, no one looks
like that." That still wouldn't mean it
wasn't the most. And I don't think
Plato's necessarily saying like the
rigged spring break lottery for mating
is like the way it's that that's not the
point. But the point is like
you are not going to find the ideal
here.
It's not here. And so whatever your
expectations for it are, they're off.
Yeah.
Right. Okay. And think of how in the
republic, right, that the the the what
we talked about earlier, the problem of
founding, like we're not going to make
an ideal happen here. It's always going
to collapse on itself.
And in the Tmus, which is sort of a
sequel to the republic, right? It's like
the day after the party and Socrates
says,
"Hey, I I'm troubled that we couldn't
see the ideal in the real, right? We
never got to a concrete instance of it,
right?" So he assembles some some
politicians to say, you know, tell me
what the ideal city would be.
And the the closest he gets to an answer
is from Credus who tells him a myth,
another another good lie about this
great war between ancient Athens and um
and Atlantis, right? And when and but
but once again, it's like it's it's
sketchy, you know? He like it it was
heard by Solon in Egypt at a children's
party from a priest whose name means
deception and all this like okay so it's
like
Plato's saying we don't really ever get
to see
the ideal right in in the concrete world
right and then and then you get this
creation myth again right in the
where this world is just a symbol of
this other thing
it's a symbol of another thing and think
of it symbols again don't really
represent they help you recollect
something
yes
yeah we're like a a simulacra or like a
fallen version of of of the thing.
Yeah,
that's so Yeah, it's fascinating,
right? But but but also though I think
it's a fair perennial criticism of Plato
that like there are consequences to
saying this world is worthless.
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. You know,
well, that's why I mean I and maybe I'm
wrong in interpreting him this way, but
I I think the postmodern simulation
theory is extremely nihilistic. It's
like, okay, you know, we're all in a
simulation. Play Grand Theft Auto. Like,
that's that's that's bad.
And then I I I my sense is that in
Plato's case, it's more meaningful.
Yeah. I could think of no better
metaphor to prepare people to have bad
lives,
right,
than than like the simulation
simulation theory, right? So, like,
you're playing a video game, nothing
matters, you know? But then there's this
other thing where it's like you're you
might be in somewhat of a kind of video
game like yeah physics might be like
tuned to your you know your perceptive
apparatus and like
um
yeah you're you're being sort of tested
and you know that you're seeing these
similacro like you're not seeing the
ideal forms or whatever but uh there's
another level and the other level is
involves goodness and you know and so I
don't know I mean that I would I would
hope that
that interpretation of Plato is correct
and then I don't know if correct and you
know believing that but
you would not get trouble for me.
Okay. Well, thanks. [laughter]
Awesome. So, Glon also says uh when when
speaking about the cave, he says, "Are
there protocols uh that allow us to
ascend outside of the cave?" And I asked
Jacques Valle this. I said, "Are there
protocols?" And he said, he's like,
"Yes, there are." And then I don't know
he went on to to you know again speak in
you know typically kind of coded uh uh
fashion. Um do you think there are
protocols?
I mean I mean I I I don't know that
there's anything fancier than what you
have in like your basic Greek ethics,
right?
You know what I mean? Like
don't don't allow irrational passion to
run your life, right? Know thyself,
right?
Do you see you know what I mean? Um, you
know, like
like those are the protocols.
Yeah. Those Yeah. I mean, like it's
certainly in the Republic in Aristotle's
Nikameian ethics, those are the
protocols, right? Right.
Right.
Yeah.
It's so funny because in modern UFO
world,
lots of junk food is probably not good
for that. I agree. Right. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. No, it's Yeah. Like maybe it's
often I find when I speak to people who
are like really into like the or like
you know like celestial ascent or
whatever it's like
they've got to just fix a bunch of local
things in their [laughter] life and they
say the ascent thing is just this escape
thing. And I've fallen prey to this in
the past where I'm like it would be
really cool to like shoot up on a UFO
into like some other realm or whatever
like you know Enoch style or you know
whatever. But like I do think reality is
probably the cave is probably
constructed super deliberately. Yeah.
Whereby you know whatever issues you're
facing have to be solved karmically in
this world in like a very just benal
local sense.
Yeah. So I'm not trying to set myself up
to be some model or something like that.
Okay. I was talking to I was at a
conference several years ago and I was
talking to some like very very um you
know high achieving scientists
neuroscientists who were looking at the
psychedelic questions.
Okay. And they were talking about like
all the the the benefits for like
marriage and things that were being
found out around some of these things
and like all overall stuff. And
one of them was a very good friend of
mine. I asked him afterwards. I said,
"So,
uh, it just a lot of what you're talking
about with there just sounds like what
I've come to just thinking about stuff
for like 20 years."
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. You know what I mean? He was like,
"Yeah, exactly." He was like, "Yeah,
exactly." Right.
Yeah. You know,
and it seems like it seems like the
original protocol was a kind of life.
Yes.
Yeah. Yeah. Right.
I have a friend who says like life is
like surfing. Psychedelics are like
snowboarding. Yeah. Yeah, snowboarding
you get really hurt and you have to you
you start at the top of the mountain and
you got to go down, you got to make it
all the way down. Surfing is just this
sort of well- earned thing where you
have to like catch each and every wave
or whatever.
And uh it does feel like
there's so much missed in like modern
psychedelic conversation where it's
clearly this non-specific amplifier of
good and bad.
And
I believe in not stigmatizing it. I
believe in it in the context of like
desperate, you know, PTSDridden
veterans and stuff.
And then simultaneous to both of those
things, there are no shortcuts. And I
don't really believe in like
uh it in its most escapist form where
it's like I'm having issues. I need to
get tamp stamp it out with Iasa. Like
no, you got to go through the pain. Like
even going beyond this, not just the
psychedelic thing, just looking for a
protocol in general, right? It seems
like you know what I like there's
there's a way there there's
there's something besides any sort of
cheat code too.
I don't mean to like reduce something by
calling it a cheat code. And I think
there is this,
you know, this this program of of living
that's been that has been in the
conversation for thousands of years,
right?
That maybe we were too quick to walk
away from.
Yes.
Right. Yeah. Again, it's almost like
some of the the people that I feel like
perform best in the cave like are the
most aware of how shitty the world is
and they just they just, you know, make
the changes necessary to like succeed in
the, you know, whatever operating system
we're like living in.
Yeah. And and if if you if you make a
commitment to, you know, live a kind of
contemplative life, you like you're
worried you're more worried about what's
true, right?
Yeah. Do you know what I mean? And
that's going to help you cut through
your own BS in ways and and and it's
going to maybe remove a lot of the
static in the background. Yes. You can
hear some things. Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Kind of um increasing the
signal to noise ratio,
which you know that's a that's a very
hard thing to to do to that's I guess
like discernment. That's what that is.
Yeah. and seeing low-level things that
you're encountering as um similacra of
higher things I think helps. And then
there's sort of this sill and kuribdus
where you know Carl Young talks about
this in his book on synchronicities
where it's like if you put all faith in
synchronicities like at some point
you're probably just going to like be in
this soopscistic like getting what you
want from like your reality reality will
just like full wholesale conform
to your own beliefs. you'll you'll think
you're living in some hologram or
whatever.
And then on the flip side, if you don't
if you don't, you know, uh impugn any
sort of meaning, you know, then then
there's like that's like an issue, you
know, too. So it's like there's this
silicus.
It's narcissism versus paranoia.
Yeah. Exactly. Yeah.
Exactly.
Um and so it's it's it's clearly this
like um you know, it's an art. It's not
a science. It's a sort of aesthetic
thing. And and so I guess my my point is
is like if you ask about protocols it's
it's like
you know like the Greeks were not they
they didn't hide this right here you
know here's what we're recommending to
you like like live in a moderate way
right like like like value truth over
other things etc etc and then there
that's like the path of insight
do you have anything to say I won't ask
this if you don't but on the on the
monolith as like a symbol I thought of
maybe asking that cuz like it's brought
up in the Pulka book It's brought up in
Gerard actually in the sacred and the
sacred and the vi violence and the
sacred. It is. It is. Yeah.
Um
I don't have any sense of how to
interpret it.
Okay. But it does
seem to be a symbol of like really
humane importance,
right?
Yeah. Yeah. It's interesting. It
represents like in 2001 Space Odyssey,
you have the monolith which is like it's
like Yeah. inspires tech innovation.
But then there's this idea, there's this
like kind of hermeneutic reading of 2001
where it's actually a screen.
Yeah.
The 20, you know,
the proportions all line up. Yeah.
The proportions all it's actually like
the
the cinematic like the movie age is the
the monolith. And so the monolith is
somehow the noble mythology of the
future. And and that's the Pulka's book
starts out about how like media shapes
our understanding of what we see.
Yes. And maybe even literally like like
Jacqu Valet talks about, you know, maybe
these aren't space aliens, but if we
start to believe that enough, you know,
they'll they'll appear like this sort of
egregor model of consensus reality where
reality is actually
just a consensus collapsing function.
It's not this sort of objective.
I mean, I think we can not in a magical
way, but we can pretend things into
existence.
Do you?
I agree.
Yeah.
and say, "Hey, Jim, how are you doing
today?" And I'm going to say, "I'm doing
fine whether I feel like some
contemporary psychoanalytic thinkers,
you know, talk about like we're always
performing for this big other
that's in the room." But big other is
something we've pretended into
existence. Yes.
Right. But now it's here. And like to
act like I wouldn't feel a little weird
if you didn't say, "I'm doing fine, Jim.
When I ask how you're doing, I'd be
lying." So big others here, even though
we know it's just something we pretend
into existence, seems like we can
pretend things into existence that then
have a downward effect on us, right? Not
unlike our technologies.
If I have some fake smile I put on for
the next 3 hours, I think statistically
like I'm going to be like a little
happier or whatever if I Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
So, and then it and then you're like,
okay, if that's true,
science is actually like the most
political cuz science is sort of the
modern mythology of today. It's the
thing we It's the thing we hold most
sacred. It it involves a founding myth,
you know, the big bang. It involves
rituals, you know, people with lab coats
or whatever and these sort of priestly
citadel or whatever.
Remember the honest place that those
those symbols of science work.
They really work
and that's something we've pretended
into exist. Do you think we see a shift
um into kind of you know there's talks
of a re-enchantment and um you know this
from the Max Weber German sociologist
the age of disenchantment
which we seem to I think be coming out
of like Richard Dawkins and all these
guys like who are like you know hardcore
like atheist materialists
that does seem to be kind of ending and
you have Christians like Rod Dreer
writing about this and like you have a
you have a lot of people talking about
this sort of re-en I mean I did not
expect in starting this channel I
started it actually it wasn't even
originally about UFOs and then I started
to cover UFOs I didn't think it would
get this big on the UFO thing but people
are so fascinated by it
so I mean
I think you're right there there is
I mean this is this is bad armchair
sociology right I think you're right
there's there's an openness
that wasn't there you know say in like
the early 2000s like when when the the
big trend then was you know the the new
atheists and all that, right? Okay. Um,
so I think that that's there's going to
be a difference between the the Jenzers
from the millennials there. You know
what I mean? You know,
right? Because like the millennials kind
of were coming on line in the middle of
the of the the Richard Dawkins craze and
now like the Gen Zers are coming online
in the middle of this, right?
So, I do agree with you and I think it's
I think there's a healthy openness to
enchantment. But I also worry though too
that it could become
an unhealthy openness to mystification
too.
You know what I mean? Where like just
any enchantment is going to do now.
Anything goes.
Anything goes. Yeah. Or
or even um
an openness to maybe the most unhealthy
versions of religion and things like
that. So I worry that like you know the
the the much abused pendulum swing
metaphor, right? But I do worry that the
swing could go to the irrational.
Yep.
Right. Too. Do you know what I mean?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
I do. I do as well.
Yeah. And and and like look, you can you
can see in the UFO world like some
people will go for anything pro UFO,
right?
Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And they get super
defensive where they're like, "This is
this is real. UFOs are real."
Yeah.
They go on the sort of press circuit
thing and that's all they want. It's
like a it's more of like a political
campaign.
Yeah. Um, and it's not this sort of
egoless search for truth.
So, so I do worry, you know, that uh our
like our recovery from materialism
could could slip into a kind of
uh anti-enlightenment irrationalism,
too.
Yes.
Yeah, it definitely could. What do you
think if Plato were here today
and he saw
the UFO thing, the AI thing, like he saw
all this sort of like
these
really intense movements.
Yeah.
Um that involve secret technology. They
involve, you know, kind of asymmetric
tail risk.
Yeah.
But they also involve the saving of
humanity.
What do you think he would say?
Uh, I think he would mistrust the whole
deal. [laughter]
I love it.
I think he would. I think he'd say,
"Hey, welcome to your cave, man."
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
I think he mistrust it. Yeah.
Yeah. He would say, "Yeah, cuz the thing
it's probably like a lot of these things
point charismatically at the truth, but
they're all being used politically.
They're all sort of political footballs
or whatever. So, it's like
Yeah. And they think so. I read The
Republic as this is a manual for
political skepticism."
I love that.
Yeah. And and I think he he would look
at all this and say, you know, the uh
we've seen this movie before, guys.
Yeah.
Well, there are very few people, I
think, who truly search for truth in a
sort of trans political way where it's
like it's it transcends uh self- gain
or, you know, desire for, you know,
dominion over others or the world or
whatever.
And uh yeah, I think that's like the
that's the least commoditized thing in
the world. Yeah. It's probably the one
thing you can't commodify.
Yeah. You know, you can't do it.
You can't do it. And um it's tough
because it's not rewarded, you know, in
this world. We were talking earlier like
before getting here and you were like
asking me about like the show and I was
like, I don't know, man. Like [laughter]
existential crisis like, you know, the
more
it becomes this economically self-
sustaining thing or whatever. It's impo
it's sort of impossible to unbound it
from from that and and then and then all
of a sudden that like leaks into like
just the pure truth seeeking,
right? A
and it's a standard that no podcast ever
holds itself to or whatever where it's
like this intellectual entertainment
circuit or whatever. But somehow on the
UFO topic, I I I want to hold myself to
this standard. And I think we we should
be held to this standard where if you're
not
providing incremental evidence every
single show or whatever, you're kind of
not really you're then you're just like
you're talking to these talking heads
and they're just saying the same [__]
and they're inserting themselves into
the conversation. The whole thing's kind
of lame.
Um so yeah, I'm I'm sort of actively see
like trying to think like how do how do
you do what I'm trying to do? in a in a
like in a capitalist world and context
or whatever. I don't know. I don't
really know.
Prior to the revolution, right, how do
you do this?
Yeah. Yeah.
So, I mean, okay, for for me,
I this is going to sound maybe
paradoxical.
I trust myself because I have changed my
mind on very big ticket stuff at certain
points in my life. Okay.
What And now you might think no, that
would mean you mistrust yourself because
you've been wrong before. What makes you
think you're right this time? But it
makes me trust myself more because it's
like well
I think I could admit to myself that I
was wrong in in ways that might even be
embarrassing to me in certain circles.
Do you see that? Yeah.
And so I think
you know you can trust well I mean let's
remember there's a cave so you really
can't trust anything on a screen right
okay but like implicitly right but like
I think you can trust thing people more
the degree to which they have actually
changed their mind.
I agree and and have admitted it
publicly and said I was wrong. Yep.
etc. You know what I mean? And I think
as long as you're truly open to changing
your mind. Yeah. Right.
And of course, and you only you will
know that, right? Like like in your you
know, you're as you lie awake at night
worrying, right?
Yeah.
Only you will know that is, you know,
could I change my mind and have I
changed my mind? Yeah. I think that's
that that I think that maintaining that
openness to being like utterly debased
by the truth.
Yeah. Yeah.
I think that's the most important
intellectual virtue. Well, I think it's
not only important to do and a proxy for
how intellectually honest somebody is,
but it's probably any search for like
big T truth sort of ends up in that.
It's like the bridge over the river Quai
or whatever where you spend your whole
time trying to build this bridge and
then you real you know it's like the
alchemist. you realize it was within or
you know it's this sort of uh
you've been extremely ignorant of like
these core these core truths because all
all truth seeking everything in life is
leveraged by somebody's internal
psychology everything
everything 100%
and it's all so it's like the UFO thing
is so it's so it's often very escapist
it's often
the people are interested in sort of
left-hand path kind of a cult stuff you
know and it's like
it's not
it's not always like great like the
impetus for behind a lot of these
things. And so
I think the earnest inquiry into this
stuff is if if that's you know part of
your path
is fine and then there's some sort of
coming to terms with you know often it's
like the you know St. Francis of Aisi
where it's like this forcing function
towards good.
Yeah.
Um and yeah I don't know it's it's
fascinating. Yeah.
Um I think one of the most profound
moments in philosophy is the the very
first line of the preface of Nichch's
genealogy of morals
where he says we knowers are least well
known to ourselves.
Okay. And it's a direct kind of you know
f you to Socrates you know the know
thyself right you know the unexamined
life is worth is not worth living to say
well
have you really inquired like have you
really looked into your own like
irrational biases like your own needs
that might be fulfilled by all this
right you know what I mean and I think
and especially something like with the
UFO is I think you really need to be
open to like to like how my own
unconscious could be gaming this for
100%. It's the the young line like uh
you know uh
you call it you call it your you know
you call it fate until you reconcile
with your subconscious or whatever.
Exactly. You know and and yeah and it's
uh it pre-leverages everything and if
you don't admit that
it's definitely doing it to you. If you
do admit that then maybe it loses a
little bit of power and you have some
sort of objectivity around it. I do find
that is the the dirty little secret in
all of ufology is like everybody and I
mean everybody has some sort of
autobiographical thing in their past or
reason for being into it. And the ones
that I find often the most honest actors
and certain people maybe can't talk
about these things publicly because they
do come from, you know, specific
positions.
Yeah.
But everybody's got a little bit of that
and and it's probably true of our
political views, our religious views,
etc., etc. And that doesn't mean these
things need to be abandoned, but it does
mean
we have to like be aware of where our
cognitive weak spots are.
Totally.
And make sure we're not being exploited.
Yeah.
Yeah. I flipped from being pretty
diehard liberal growing up. And I still
am, I guess, anti- neoconservatism
or whatever. Um, so that was, you know,
where I think the macro shifted. What's
that?
Bomb fewer people.
The what?
Yeah. Yeah. Bomb fewer people. I was
always, you know, I'm still consistent
on that. Yeah. Exactly. Um, and so maybe
there's some sort of like neoconser
conservative neoliberal alliance or
something and I'm sort of anti- that or
whatever. But like I also shifted. I've
also become like more a little more
rightwing.
And um,
you know, I I I often trust people who
have had shifts like that because I'm
like, "Oh, you're willing to like just
kind of throw out your own ego, question
yourself."
Um,
cuz you probably had to eat a lot of
crow with some friends when you
Oh, I still do. I have friends who like
went to, you know, college with me. And
they're like, "What's wrong with you,
dude?" Like, "Sorry."
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah.
Andy, look, I have to eat a lot of crow
on and the right wing has a lot of crow.
You know, there's like Yeah. There are
issues on both sides.
I can't remember if he's still alive or
not, but it was a very important
contemporary philosopher named Hillary
Putnham.
And um Putinham was famous for changing
his mind.
Yeah.
Yeah. And at one point, I believe it was
an interview or something with him where
he said, "Look, I thought the point was
to be right, not to be consistent."
Yeah.
Totally.
Yeah. And it should like I think the
best way to get to truth is this
dialectical thing. Yes. Where you play
with falsity. You're like you don't know
like you but you you assume a belief
that you think is kind of too radical or
beyond the pale or ridiculous. And in
many cases like the Pulka thing or the
Carl Young thing, you're like actually I
think there's something real here.
Um and then in other cases you play with
it and you're like h that doesn't make
sense. Like I'm going to discard that.
But a priori concealing yourself from
quote unquote misinformation as deemed
by some authority figure is grounds for
like horrible critical thinking and
being manipulated.
Yeah. Hegel like conscious like uh he's
really dismissive of of the fear of
being wrong.
Yeah. And like there's kind of a risk
like there's like we have to be willing
to like
go on what he calls the highway of
despair anyway like like to to
constantly have our views
like wrecked. Yes.
Right. To make any progress.
I love that.
Yeah.
Do you think some of these philosophers
I always go back and forth. This is me
being pre-leveraged by my own biases
here. So, I'll admit and the whole show
is. But like
that is your show though.
Yeah. It is totally. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
You can't get around that.
You don't like it? Get your own show.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. But um like
Hegel I think of you know I think
there's a book called like Hegel and the
hermetic tradition.
Yeah. and he was like friends with like
Jacob Bomb or or like you know sort of
contemporaries and like
you read bomb stuff you read like you
know the Aurora and stuff it's like this
is like really trippy interesting stuff
you hear like rumors he might have been
like a Rosian and like part of you know
secret societies and stuff
do you how much do you think some of
these philosophers like maybe Hegel
being a good example
dabbled in like the you know more
esoteric
look I think they they all had private
lives
yeah do you you know what I mean And and
you know if you found out that some
prominent you know philosopher at I have
no one in mind here okay some prominent
philosopher at at prestigious university
Z let's say right
uh today you know was like a 33 degree
mason or something like that that
wouldn't be entirely surprising to you
that sort of yeah so so I don't doubt
that you could find and certainly like
like those sorts of groups are all over
you know the enlightenment and things
like that. So I I would not be surprised
if if like Hegel had some dabblings of
that sort. Yeah. Yeah.
And it's fascinating. You have Jacqu
Fleet, you know, uh calling his working
group on UFO ufology, studying UFOs with
Jon Heinik and a bunch of these guys in
the 70s the invisible college. He even
named his book The Invisible College,
which is uh homage to, you know, Robert
Bole. But originally,
less than subtle hint, right?
Yeah. Less than subtle hint. These are
originally Rosaian ideas. Now with um so
using Hegel as an example right and so
yeah may maybe he was involved in some
esoteric stuff or you know and and he
had
you know you know it was in hermetic
stuff right
I don't know if that need change how we
read the texts though
sure do I'm happy to take
his public presentation of the text
at face value right even though there
may be significant things to learn of
other things that that he might have
been up to
yeah I never know how to read, you know,
some of these people. It's like, are
they are they really into it or is it
some sort of like tactic or some, you
know?
I mean, he's also like on paper a
Lutheran, too, but that would not really
like there's some pretty he comes apart
with that, too.
Right.
Right. Yeah. Well, it's all it's all so
fascinating. I mean, I mean, talk about
a philosopher who's had uh just an
outsized impact on modernity and Hegel
has to be, you know, at the at the top.
Definitely.
Um, but this has been an honor. I really
appreciate it.
I've had a good time, man. This is a
blast. And uh I'd love to do it again.
Is there anything else we've missed or
anything?
No, not I'm aware of. Yeah. So,
okay.
Uh yeah, feel free to drag me back down.
I would I would love to do
I would love to do it, man. Maybe I'll
come out to you. I'd love to see Kansas
and hang out and u
come during tornado season. We'll uh
Yeah. Yeah, that's Yeah, why not?
[laughter]
Um yeah, man. This is a blast. Go out
and buy a unidentified flying hyper
object. you working on anything else or
do you want to promote anything else?
Uh, Twitter or anything or
Yeah, I I have a mostly dormant Twitter
account. So, okay. Yeah. Yeah. So, I
have a Substack. Maybe check that out.
Okay. Awesome.
But if you're interested, have a look at
the book.
Cool. And is it on Substack? It's just
Jim Madden or
Yeah, it it you know, it's hard to
change your Substack name, right? And I
like accidentally made it. I think it's
just literally Jim Madden's newsletter.
Okay.
Why not literal? People know what
they're getting.
I do I do have a web page, jdmadden.com.
has a bunch of papers and podcasts and
stuff. So,
okay. Awesome. Well, really appreciate
it. This is a blast.
You bet. Thank you.
Yeah.